If you say A, they'll make you say B.
In our alphabet B comes after A.
Ability is of little account without opportunity.
Ability is the poor man's wealth.
Ability, not luck, conquers.
Ability will enable a man to get to the top, but character will keep him from  falling.
Ability will see a chance and snatch it; who has a match will find a place to  strike it.
From each according to his abilities, to each according to his needs.
Most men don't lack the will but the ability.
There are many rare abilities in the world that fortune never brings to life.
He who would not when he could is not able when he would.
A little absence does much good.
Absence cools moderate passions but inflames violent ones.
Absence is love's foe: far from the eyes, far from the heart.
Absence is the mother of disillusion.
Absence kills a little love but makes the big ones grow.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
Absence of body is better than presence of mind in time of danger.
Absence sharpens love; presence strengthens it.
Long absence changes friends.
 He that is long absent is soon forgotten.
Speak not evil of the absent; it is unjust.
The absent are always in the wrong.
The absent are never without fault nor the present without excuse.
There are no absolutes that are livable.
Abstinence is the best medicine.
Even absurdity has a champion to defend it, for error is always talkative.
Abundance is a trouble, but competency brings delight.
Abundance, like want, can ruin character.
Abundance, like want, ruins many.
Abundance of money ruins youth.
Out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks.
 Abuse does not take away use.
The abuse of the best thing is the worst.
He who abuses others must not be peeved by the actions of others.
Who accepts nothing has nothing to return.
Accident is a word not to be found in the divine vocabulary.
Accident is commonly the parent of disorder.
Accident is the mother of invention.
Accidents will happen in the best-regulated families.
It takes less time to avoid an accident than it does to report it.
One accident is one too many.
Your first accident may be your last.
The accomplice is as bad as the thief.
Always keep exact accounts.
Brief account is the best.
Short accounts make long friends.
We must give an account of our idle words.
There is no accounting for taste.
You never accumulate if you don't speculate.
Accusation is proof when malice and power sit in judge.
He that accuses all convicts only one.
Never accuse others to excuse yourself.
When the foxes pack the jury box, the chicken is always found guilty as  accused.
There's nothing to an ache.
Still achieving, still pursuing.
Achievement is one percent aspiration and ninety-nine percent perspiration.
Aching teeth are ill tenants.
Acorns were good till bread was found.
Acquaintance with evil blinds us to its dangers.
Acquaintances soften prejudices.
If a man does not make new acquaintances as he advances through life, he will  soon find himself alone.
Many acquaintances but few friends.
Of chance acquaintance beware.
The more acquaintances, the more danger.
The first step toward enjoyment of the human lot is acquiescence.
What we acquire without sweat we give away without regret.
Acts indicate intentions.
An evil act has a witness in the heart.
Nip the act while in the bud.
One foolish act may undo a man, and a timely one make his fortune.
Sow an act, reap a habit.
The best way to keep acts in memory is to refresh them with new ones.
Act as if it were impossible to fail.
Act first and think afterwards.
Act so in the valley that you need not fear those who stand on the hill.
Act well at the moment, and you have performed a good act for eternity.
Act what you are and not what you aren't.
He acts well who acts quickly.
He who acts through another acts through himself.
To act is easy, but to understand is hard.
After the acting, wishing is in vain.
A bad action leaves a worse hangover.
A man's actions are motion pictures of his beliefs.
Action is itself the best remedy for morbid thoughts.
Action is our chief joy.
Action is the basis of success.
Action is the proper fruit of knowledge.
Action is worry's worst enemy.
Action without study is fatal; study without action is fatal.
Action without thought is like shooting without aim.
Actions and reactions are equal.
Actions and words are the windows through which the heart is seen.
Actions, looks, and words are steps from the alphabet by which you spell  character.
Actions measured by time seldom prove better by repentance.
Actions speak louder than words.
Bad actions lead to worse reactions.
Brave actions never want a trumpet.
By united action we stand, by divided action we fall.
For the sake of one good action a hundred evil ones should be forgotten.
Good actions give strength to ourselves and inspire good actions in others.
Good actions speak for themselves; they need no tin horn.
Great actions speak great minds.
In great action men show themselves as they ought to be, in small action as they  are.
It is not the action but the intention that is good or bad.
It is only in action that you have the power to grow.
Let your actions be equal to your promises.
Man's actions show his character.
Men's actions are not to be judged at first sight.
Never repent a good action.
Only the actions of the great smell sweet and blossom in the dust.
Suit the actions to the word.
That action is best which procures the greatest good for the majority.
The actions of a fool cannot serve as a precedent.
The fame of men's good actions seldom goes beyond their own doors, but their  evil actions are carried to a thousand miles.
Vicious actions are not hurtful because they are forbidden, but forbidden  because they are hurtful.
We are remembered by our good actions, not by our good intentions.
Your one good action excuses a dozen bad ones.
One actor cannot make a play.
Adam ate the apple, and our teeth still ache.
In Adam's fall we sinned all.
We're all Adam's children; silk makes the difference.
When Adam delved and Eve span, who was then the gentleman? Rec.
Addition is the miser's sum of happiness.
An addition to a family is often a subtraction.
Admiration is the daughter of ignorance.
If what men most admire they would despise, 'twould look like mankind were  growing wise.
Admonish, but pursue not unto death him who has injured you.
The ignorant always adore what they cannot understand.
An adult is only one who has ceased to grow vertically and started to grow  horizontally.
The difference between adults and children is that adults don't ask questions.
Not to advance is to recede.
Every advantage has its disadvantage.
He who derives the advantage ought to sustain the burden.
Take advantage of the little opportunities and you won't need to wait for the big  one.
Who seeks adventure finds blows.
A dose of adversity is often as needful as a dose of medicine.
Adversity does best discover virtue.
Adversity flatters no man.
Adversity has no friends.
Adversity is the diamond dust heaven polishes its jewels with.
Adversity is the first path to truth.
Adversity is the parent of virtue.
Adversity is the prosperity of the great.
Adversity is the stuff that shows whether you are what you thought you were.
Adversity is the test of friendship.
Adversity is the true school of the mind.
Adversity makes a man wise, but not rich.
Adversity makes men; prosperity, monsters.
Adversity makes strange bedfellows.
Adversity stimulates endurance.
Adversity tries virtue.
Adversity willingly undergone is the greatest virtue.
If you faint in the days of adversity, your strength is small.
Many can bear adversity, but few contempt.
Don't advertise what you can't fulfill.
It pays to advertise.
Advice after mischief is taken like medicine after death.
Advice comes too late when a thing is done.
Advice is cheap.
Advice is least heeded when most needed.
Advice is not a popular thing to give.
Advice is often judged by results and not by intentions.
Advice is something the wise don't need and the fools won't take.
Advice, like water, takes the form of the vessel it is poured into.
Advice that ain't paid for ain't no good.
Advice to a fool goes in one ear and out the other.
Advice to all, security for none.
Advice whispered is worthless.
After-advice is fool's advice.
Ask advice, but use your own common sense.
Ask advice of your equals, help from your superiors.
Free advice is worth just what you paid for it.
Give neither salt nor advice till you are asked for it.
Good advice is beyond price.
Good advice never comes too late.
He asks advice in vain who will not follow it.
He who can take advice is sometimes superior to those who give it.
He who follows his own advice must take the consequences.
He who gives advice is a bigger fool than he who takes it.
If you can't take advice, you can't be helped.
If you ever want to get advice on raising children, ask an old maid or bachelor.
If you want good advice, consult an old man.
It is easier to give advice than to take it.
Less advice and more hands.
Many people take advice as they do medicine: fling it away at the moment the  doctor's back is turned.
Many receive advice, but only the wise profit from it.
Never trust the advice of a man in difficulties.
Take your own advice; you'll be too busy to bore others with it.
The advice of fools is worthless.
The best advice I know in life is don't give too much.
The kind of advice we do not like to take often turns out to be the best.
There's no advice like father's--even if you don't take it.
Unasked-for advice smells bad.
We hate those who will not take our advice and despise those who do.
We may give advice, but we cannot give conduct.
We should never be too proud to take advice.
When the rats want advice, they never ask the mice.
Advise not what is pleasant but what is useful.
Never advise a man to the halter or altar.
Advisers are not payers.
Advisers get away with it.
An adviser may give you a helping hand to the poorhouse.
Advising is easier than helping.
Affairs sleep soundly when fortune is present.
Don't meddle in others' affairs.
In the affairs of this world men are saved, not by faith, but by the want of it.
One cannot manage too many affairs.
There are no small steps in great affairs.
Affectation in dress implies a flaw in understanding.
Affectation is a greater enemy to the face than small pox.
Affectation is at best a deformity.
Affection is the broadest base of a good life.
Don't be too free with your affections, for when true love strikes, the spark will  be dimmed.
Talk not of wasted affection; affection is never wasted.
The ardor of parental affection consumes the heart with its fire.
Affliction is the wholesome sort of virtue.
Afflictions are sometimes blessings in disguise.
Afflictions are the good man's treasure-but he'd rather buy it than bear it.
Be not afraid; be only afraid of standing still.
Don't be afraid of opposition; remember, a kite rises against the wind.
Don't be afraid of tomorrow; look what could happen today.
He who is afraid of doing too much always does too little.
Nobody would be afraid if he could help it.
Age and marriage tame man and beast.
Age before beauty.
Age breeds aches.
Age gives good advice when it is no longer able to give bad example.
Age is like love: it cannot hide.
Age is no excuse for foolishness.
Age is venerable in a man and would be in a woman if she ever became old.
Age lasts; youth devours.
Age makes a man white but not better.
Age mellows some people; others it makes rotten.
Age needs a critic, youth a model.
Age should think and youth should do.
Age writes in the sand.
At 20 years of age the will reigns, at 30 the wit, at 40 the judgment.
For age and want, save while you may, for no morning lasts all day.
From middle age on everything of interest is either illegal, immoral, or  fattening.
In telling age of another multiply by two; in telling your own age divide by two.
The surest sign of age is loneliness.
The warnings of age are the weapons of youth.
Who honors not age is not worthy of it.
With age comes wisdom.
Each age has its own follies, as its majority is made up of foolish young people.
Every age wants its playthings.
The golden age never was the present age.
The aged knows; the young supposes.
A press agent is a man who hitches his braggin' to a star.
Agree, for the law is costly.
Make yourself agreeable to all.
Agriculture is the most certain source of wealth.
An ague in spring is physic for the king.
He who looks behind will never get ahead.
It's good for what ails you, and if nothing ails you, it's good for that, too.
A man without aim is like a clock without hands, as useless if it turns as if it  stands.
Better to fail in a high aim than to succeed in a low one.
It is better to have an aim and miss it than to hit and not have an aim.
The aim is useless without the way.
The higher the aim the higher the fall.
 Aim at the stars, but keep your feet on the ground.
Aim high and you will succeed.
Aim high, time flies.
Always aim at what becomes you.
Better aim at the moon than shoot into the well.
If you aims to do a favor, go de whole hog.
Ain't ain't right.
If you aren't what you ain't, then you ain't what you are.
Foul air slays like a sword.
Fresh air and sunshine and plenty of grace slam the door in the doctor's face.
Hot air thawed out many a cold reception.
No alchemy likes saving.
Alcohol and driving don't mix.
Alcohol will preserve anything but a secret.
All alcohol shows the inner man.
Good ale is meat, drink, and cloth.
When the ale is in, wit is out.
Alert in the beginning, negligent in the end.
All are not hunters that blow the horn.
All between the cradle and the coffin is uncertain.
All covet; all lose.
All for love and the world well lost.
All for one, one for all.
All good things come from heaven.
All is fair in love and war.
All is not grist that goes to the mill.
All's well that ends well.
All or nothing at all.
All that exists in this world is beautiful.
All that glitters is not gold.
All that goes up must come down.
All things come to him who waits.
All things have an end.
All things work together for good.
It takes all sorts to make up the world.
Make all you can, save all you can, give all you can.
Venture not all in one boat.
Every alley has its own tin can.
It is a long alley that has no turning.
If you want to be alluring, don't chase your young man.
The almanac writer makes the almanac, but God makes the weather.
With the old almanac and the old year, leave your vices, though ever so dear.
Almost made it never made the grade.
Almost never killed a fly.
Almost was never hanged.
Men who tell you almost nothing but the truth tell you almost nothing.
'Most kill bird don't make stew.
A friar who asks aims for God's sake begs for two.
Alms are the golden key that opens the gates of heaven.
Alms are the salt of riches--but don't rub the salt into the poor man's wound.
Better to give me nothing than stolen aims.
No one becomes poor through giving alms.
The little alms are the good alms.
Who gives himself with his alms feeds three: himself, his hungering neighbor,  and me.
Better alone than in bad company.
Call him not alone who dies side by side with gallant men.
Leave well enough alone.
Man can't live in this world alone.
Those are never alone who are accompanied by noble thoughts.
When alone, we have our thoughts to watch; when in the family, our tempers;  when in society, our tongues.
Always is a long time.
An amateur is a person who plays a game for the fun of it.
An ambassador is a good man sent abroad to lie for his country.
A man without ambition is like a woman without looks.
Ambition and fleas jump high.
Ambition destroys its possessor.
Ambition has no rest.
Ambition is no cure for love.
Ambition is not the voice of little people.
Ambition is putting a ladder against the sky.
Ambition is the incentive that makes purpose great and achievement greater.
Ambition is the last infirmity of noble minds.
Ambition is torment enough for an enemy.
Ambition knows no obstacles.
Ambition obeys no laws.
Ambition often spends foolishly what avarice has collected wickedly.
Be content and do not heed the goadings of ambitions.
Fling away ambition; by that sin fell the angels.
Great ambitions forgotten because of lack of ambition are pipe dreams.
Great ambitions fulfilled are proof of a noble life.
Great ambitions make great men.
He who sits on the tack of ambition will surely rise to success.
It is a laudable ambition that aims at being better than his neighbors.
Man's ambition knows no bars: with vision he carves his way through hardships  to the stars.
Nothing humbler than ambition when it is about to climb.
Ride your ambition in the skies.
Ambitious is like hunting for fleas.
An ambitious person is always dangerous.
The ambitious bullfrog puffed and puffed until he burst.
America is a tune.
America means opportunity, freedom, and power.
Never sell America short.
See America first.
Americans in unity and unity in Americans.
Good Americans, when they die, go to Paris.
It is a striking coincidence that the word American ends in can.
That you may be beloved, be amiable.
Avoid what you see amiss in others.
When men are tightly occupied, their amusement grows out of their work.
Anarchy is a condition in which everyone is free, so that no one can do as one  would like to do.
Noble ancestry makes a poor dish at the table.
Good tiding at two anchors, for if one breaks the other may hold.
Never cast an anchor in shifting sand.
The ancients tell us what is best, but we must learn of the moderns what is  fittest.
A short anecdote is often a tall tale.
Always being up in the air and harping doesn't make one an angel.
An angel on the street, a devil at home.
An angel on top but a devil underneath.
Angels could do no more.
Angels playing the "liar" in heaven practiced lying while they preached on  earth.
Angels take care of fools and drunkards.
Little angels grow into big devils.
Men are not angels.
Only angels wear wings.
Speak of angels and you'll hear the rustling of their wings.
When a girl whistles, an angel cries.
Young angel, old devil; young devil, old angel.
A good remedy for anger is delay.
Anger and folly walk cheek by jowl; repentance treads on both their heads.
Anger and haste hinder good counsel.
Anger and love give bad counsel.
Anger begins with folly and ends with prayer.
Anger dies quickly in a good man.
Anger edges valor.
Anger grows old fast.
Anger improves nothing but the arch of a cat's back.
Anger is a brief madness, but it can do damage that lasts forever.
Anger is a stone cast at a wasp's nest.
Anger is a sworn enemy.
Anger is a wind that blows out the light of the mind.
Anger is like a ruin which breaks itself upon what it falls.
Anger is never without reason.
Anger is often more hurtful than the injury that caused it.
Anger is the fever and frenzy of the soul.
Anger makes a rich man hated and a poor man scorned.
Anger makes dull men witty but keeps them poor.
Anger profits nobody.
Anger punishes itself.
Anger shows the character of man.
Anger warms the invention but overheats the oven.
Anger's final resting place is the bosom of fools.
Avoid anger and you will not sin.
Be master of your anger.
Beware of him who is slow to anger;, he is angry for something and will not be  pleased for nothing.
Beware the anger of a patient man.
Dread the anger of a cornered sheep.
He overcomes a stout enemy who overcomes his own anger.
He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty.
It is not the father's anger but his silence his son dreads.
Kill your anger while it's hot.
Let not the sun set on your anger.
Sleep with your anger.
Suppressing a moment of anger may save a day of sorrow.
Whatever is begun in anger ends in shame.
When in anger, say the alphabet.
An angry man opens his mouth and shuts his eyes.
Every minute you are angry you lose sixty seconds of happiness.
He that is angry is seldom at ease.
If you're angry count to ten.
To be angry is to punish yourself for another's sins.
Two things a man should never get angry at: what he can help and what he  cannot help.
Animals can speak at night.
Be kind to dumb animals.
Even in animals there exists the spirit of their sires.
It is the trapped animal that makes the most noise.
There are wild animals, but wild hunters, too.
Without animation man is naught.
Put up with small annoyances to gain great results.
If it's not one thing, it's another.
A soft answer turns away wrath.
Give a civil answer to a civil question.
No answer is also an answer.
Short answers save trouble.
The shortest answer is doing.
There's no answer to a fool's question.
Who answers suddenly knows little.
A coconut shell full of water is an ocean to an ant.
An ant may work its heart out, but it can't make money.
Ants follow fat.
Ants live safely till they have gotten wings.
Ants never lend; ants never borrow.
Any spoke will lead the ant to the hub.
Consider the ant, you sluggard, and be wise.
None preaches better than the ant, and she says nothing.
The dawn of anticipation forms a most soothing pillow for a restless head.
There's more joy in anticipation than in realization.
To admire the antique is not to admire the old but the natural.
Antiquity is not always the mark of verity.
To look back on antiquity is one thing, to go back to it another.
With a mirror of brass you can adjust your hat, but with antiquity for a mirror  you can predict the rise and fall of the empire.
A good anvil does not fear the hammer.
If you are an anvil, hold still; if you are a hammer, strike hard.
Some men are born anvils, others are born hammers.
The anvil fears no blows.
The anvil lasts longer than the hammer.
The old anvil laughs at many hammers.
Anxiety attends increase of wealth.
On anxiety street there are plenty of neighbors.
Anything for a novelty.
Anything for a quiet life.
Anything is better than nothing, Rec.
Call me anything but late for dinner.
If anything can go wrong, it will.
Anytime is tea time.
Anytime means no time.
 An ape is an ape, a varlet is a varlet, though they be clad in silk and scarlet.
An ape is never so like an ape as when he wears a doctor's cape.
The ape clasps her young so long that at last she kills them.
The higher the ape goes the more he shows his tail.
Apologizing--a very desperate habit--one that is rarely cured.
Apologies don't never make nothin' no better.
Apologies only account for that which they alter.
Apology is only egotism wrong side out.
An apostate is like a leper.
Apparel makes the man.
As costly your apparel as your purse can bear.
To appear so does not prove a thing to be really so.
Appearance passes away; truth abides.
Appearances are deceiving.
Appearances go a great ways.
Compliment an old hag on her lovely appearance, and she'll take you at your  word.
Don't trust the weak appearance of the wolf or the disappearance of the cat;  they'll both make a comeback.
Judge not according to appearances.
Merit in appearance is more often rewarded than merit itself.
Wonderful in appearance are the horns of a cow beyond the seas.
A waiting appetite kindles many a spite.
Always rise from the table with an appetite and you'll never sit down without  one.
Appetite don't regulate the time of day.
Appetite furnishes the best sauce.
For a good appetite there is no hard bread.
He who cheats his appetite avoids debt.
Moderate your appetite so that with a little you may be content.
New dishes beget new appetites.
The appetite comes while eating.
Go on deserving applause and you will be sure to meet with it.
Mankind bestows more applause on her destroyer than on her benefactor.
The applause that pleases the weak mind is but a spur to the strong one.
Adam ate the apple, and our teeth still ache.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away.
An apple never falls far from the tree.
Apples are golden in the morning, silver at noon, and lead at night.
Eat an apple going to bed, make the doctor beg his bread.
Green apples are better than none.
Handsome apples are sometimes sour.
If you don't like my apples, don't shake my tree.
If you eat rotten apples in the barrel, you will continue eating the rotten apples.
It makes a lot of difference whose apples are getting frozen.
Many a rosy apple is rotten to the core.
One bad apple spoils the lot.
Reach for the high apples first; you can get the low ones any time.
Save the apples for when you are hungry.
Shake the barrel and the big apples will come to the top.
Sour green apples sometimes turn into pretty nice pie.
The apple of your eye at sixteen is sauce in your eye at twenty.
The apple of your eye is the core of your trouble.
The apples on the other side of the wall are the sweetest.
The best apple is taken by the pig.
The fairest apple hangs on the highest bough.
The reddest apple may have a worm in it.
There's a bad apple in every box.
When the apple gets ripe, it's likely to fall.
One never appreciates what he has until he has lost it.
The thing that often occurs is never much appreciated.
Approve not of him who commends all you say.
A cold April and a wet May fill the barn with grain and hay.
April borrows three days of March, and they are ill.
April showers bring May flowers.
April wet or April dry always brings a head of rye.
If you put me in in April, I'll come when I will.
No April is so good that it won't snow on a farmer's hat.
Oh, the lovely fickleness of an April day.
Sharp April kills the pig.
Till April is dead, change not a thread.
Wet April brings milk to the cows and sheep.
When April blows his horn, it's good for hay and corn.
A wet apron means a drunken husband.
A triumphal arch should be built out of bricks so that the people will have  something convenient to throw at the hero after he passes through.
The archer that shoots badly has a lie already.
All are architects of fate working in these walls of time.
Every man is the architect of his own fortune.
If you aren't what you ain't, then you ain't what you are.
It is worth a financial loss to find out what some people are.
Not what you are but what you should be.
Things are as they are and not what they ought to be.
We are what we are by eternal law.
What you are--what you are lies with you.
Never argue with a man who talks loud; you couldn't convince him of anything.
The man who loves to argue is left without friends.
What you argue you will soon believe, even if you don't believe it.
When you argue with a fool, make sure he isn't similarly engaged.
Every argument has its answer.
In argument men need light, not heat.
It is a rare thing to win an argument and the other fellow's respect.
It is easy as pie to get into an argument and hard as hell to get out.
It is impossible to defeat an ignorant man in an argument.
It takes two to start an argument.
No argument will convince a woman or a stubborn ass.
Some people think that the louder they shout the more persuasive their  argument is.
The best way to win an argument is to avoid it.
The easiest way to lose ground in an argument is to throw mud.
The friction of argument produces more heat than light.
The more arguments you win, the less friends you will have.
The only thing a heated argument ever produced is coolness.
The weaker the argument, the stronger the words.
There are always two sides to every argument--his and the wrong side.
There is no good arguing with the inevitable; the only argument available with  the east wind is to put on your overcoat.
When the argument flares up, the wise man quenches it by silence.
Even the workhouses have their aristocracy.
An arm and money require good hands.
Don't stretch out your arm farther than the sleeve will reach.
Keep your broken arm in your sleeve.
The paleface's arm is no longer than his word.
To hoist one's arm is, of course, painful.
An armful of weeds is worth an ear of corn.
The best armor is to keep out of gunshot.
Arms without laws produce slavery.
Arms, women, and locks should be looked at daily.
Good arms are half the battle.
A headless army fights badly.
A singing army and a singing people can't be defeated.
An army travels on its stomach.
It's an ill army when the devil carries the colors.
The army knows how to gain a victory but not how to make proper use of it.
The army of the unemployed prefer alms to arms, hard-earned bread to bullets.
Your soul may belong to God, but your ass belongs to the army.
There's no arrest for the wary.
Arrogance is a kingdom without a crown.
The weed of arrogance grows on a dunghill.
Blunt arrows kill nothing but friendship.
He that will steal an arrow will steal a horse.
Watch out for the returning arrow.
All arts are brothers; each is a light to others.
All the art lies in making the best of a bad market.
Art and science have no enemies but those who are ignorant.
Art for art's sake.
Art has no enemy but ignorance.
Art imitates nature.
Art improves nature.
Art is a jealous mistress, and if a man have a genius for painting, poetry, music,  architecture, or philosophy, he will make a bad husband and an ill provider.
Art is long, life is short.
Art is power.
Art is the right hand of nature.
Art may err, but nature cannot miss.
He that sips many arts drinks none.
He who has an art has a place anywhere.
It's not art but heart that wins.
It is not strength but art that obtains the prize.
Never judge a work of art by its defects.
New arts destroy the old.
Reply with art to gravity and with gravity to art.
The art of life is the art of avoiding pain.
The art of writing is the art of applying the scat of the pants to the seat of the  chair.
The best art conceals art.
The great art of life is to play for much and stake little.
The greatest art is the art of life.
They may not know just what art is, but they know what they want.
A great artist can paint a great picture on a small canvas.
A man may be an artist though he lacks the necessary tools.
An artist gains fame and fortune--after he is dead.
Artists are always young.
Every artist was first an amateur.
The artist lives on fame, but he prefers bread and cheese.
The artist must be behind in his own art.
The artist needs no religion beyond his work.
The artist never dies.
The good artist is a successful failure.
A man never appreciates ashes until he slips on the ice.
Ashes tell no tales.
Ashes to ashes and dust to dust.
Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and you shall find; knock, and it shall be  opened unto you.
Ask me no questions and I'll tell you no lies.
Ask much to get little.
Don't ask a blind man the way to the city.
It costs nothing to ask.
It is better to ask twice than to go wrong once.
All are not asleep who have their eyes shut.
The loftier your aspirations, the greater the possible disaster.
All asses do not go on four feet.
An ass covered with gold is more respected than an ass covered with a pack  saddle.
An ass is an ass, though laden with gold.
An ass is none the wiser by calling him "doctor.
An ass thinks himself a scholar because he is loaded with books.
An ass to an ass is beautiful.
Better ride an ass that carries me than a horse that throws me.
Even an ass will not fall twice in the same quick sand.
Even if the ass is laden with gold, he will seek his food among the thorns.
Every ass loves to hear himself bray.
Every ass thinks himself worthy to stand with the king's horses.
He that makes himself an ass must not complain if men ride him.
He who scrubs the head of an ass wastes his soap.
If an ass goes traveling, he'll not come back a horse.
Jest with an ass and he will slap you in the face with his tail.
Never kick an ass and turn your back.
Nobody can lead an ass from water.
The ass carries the hay and eats it too.
The ass knows in whose face he brays.
There are a great many asses without long ears.
There is no ass but brays.
When all men say you are an ass, it is high time to bray.
When one names the ass, he comes running.
Why are there more horses' asses than there are horses? Var.
A learned assembly is a living library.
Never assent merely to please.
Mere assertion is no proof.
Assiduity produces glory and fame.
Give assistance, not advice, in a crisis.
Mutual assistance in despair will make the ugly world more fair.
Never confuse asthma with passion.
The only cure for asthma's a casket.
A frightened atheist half believes in God.
An atheist is a man who has no invisible means of support.
Atheists go one point beyond devils, for they believe and tremble.
Better a square-shooting atheist than a false Christian.
Every village has at least one atheist.
Fair weather atheists turn to God in a pinch.
There are no atheists in a fox-hole.
Virtue in distress and vice in triumph make atheists of mankind.
It does not take an athlete to jump from the frying pan into the fire.
A bold attack is half the battle.
A bold attempt is half success.
The first attempt is the most difficult.
Attempt not too hastily nor pursue too eagerly.
Before you attempt consider what you can perform.
Attempting too little and succeeding is better than trying too much and failing.
Attention is the mother of memory.
Everybody wants a little cheap attention once in a while.
Too much attention to the pigskin doesn't help the sheepskin.
An optimistic attitude is half of success.
Attitudes don't prove nothing.
Our attitude toward the world today will determine our attitude toward the  world tomorrow.
The mental attitude often depends upon the gastronomic aptitude.
She most attracts who longest can refuse.
At an auction keep your mouth shut.
Attend no auctions if you have no money.
Many people call a doctor when they want an audience.
Choose an author as you choose a friend.
Like author, like book.
Authority can serve no good purpose unless it is rightly exercised.
Authority without wisdom is like a heavy axe without an edge: fitter to bruise  than to polish.
Avarice and happiness never saw each other.
Avarice generally miscalculates and as generally deceives.
Avarice is never satisfied.
Avarice is the root of all evil.
Avarice loses all in seeking to gain all.
Avarice overreaches itself.
The wretch whom avarice bids to pinch and spare, starves, steals, and pilfers to  enrich an heir.
Don't avenge every insult--you'll have no time to do anything else.
An aversion to women is like an aversion to life.
A lean award is better than a fat judgment.
A dull axe may still cut.
Don't take the axe out of the carpenter's hand.
It's a bad axe that hasn't a keen edge.
Let every fellow grind his own axe.
Little axe cuts down big tree.
A babe in the house is a wellspring of pleasure.
A babe is a mother's anchor: she cannot swing from her moorings.
A babe is an angel whose wings decrease as her legs increase.
Babes get minks the same way minks get babes.
From the mouths of babes come words of wisdom.
Babies are one crop that never fails in Kansas.
Don't throw out the baby with the bathwater.
Every baby born into the world is a finer one than the last.
Folks that tend babies mustn't have pins about them.
It's the crying baby that gets the milk.
The baby who always gets carried will never learn to walk.
Bacchus has drowned more than Neptune and has killed more than Mars.
A bachelor is a man who didn't have a car when he was in college.
A bachelor is a man who has never made the same mistake once.
A bachelor is a souvenir of some woman who has found a better deal at the last  minute.
A bachelor is to be admired; a spinster is to be pitied.
A bachelor oftentimes has more children than the father of many.
A lewd bachelor makes a jealous husband.
An old bachelor is a poor critter.
An old bachelor is fussy because he has never had a wife to fuss at him.
An old bachelor is only half of a pair of scissors.
Bachelors' wives and maids' children are always well taught.
Happy bachelors are likely to be happy husbands.
If you hate storm and strife, lead a bacheor's life.
Old bachelors and old maids are either too good or too bad.
Rather keep bachelor's hall in hell than go to board in heaven.
The tone of a bachelor's voice sounds good when it has a ring in it.
There's a funny smell in a bachelor's house.
Bare is a back without a brother behind it.
God fits the back to the burden.
If you must strike a man from behind, slap him on the back.
It's a poor back that can't press its own shirt.
Nothing goes over the devil's back that doesn't come back under the devil's  belly.
Some tasks require a strong back and a weak mind.
The back of one is the face of another.
Turn your back and someone will steal your scone.
You scratch my back; I'll scratch yours.
If you look back, you'll soon be going that way.
It is better to turn back than to go astray.
It don't take backbone to belly up to a bar.
The way of the backslider is full of splinters.
No one can walk backwards into the future.
First clean out your own backyard.
First determine whether your own backyard is in order.
If you haven't much to do, start cleaning your own backyard.
Stay in your own backyard.
If you have no bacon, you must be content with cabbage.
The flavor of frying bacon beats orange blossoms.
Bad is called good when worse happens.
He who looks for bad will find it.
The bad which is well known is better than the good unknown.
There is no quarrel between the good and the bad, but only between the bad and  the bad.
A bad deed never dies.
Bad company is the devil's net.
Bad men leave their mark wherever they go.
From the day you were born till you ride in a hearse, there's nothing so bad but  it might have been worse.
If there were no bad people, there would be no good lawyers.
It ain't half so bad if you can afford it.
Nothing is ever as bad as you think it is going to be, and nothing is ever as good  as you think it is going to be.
There is no man so bad but he secretly respects the good.
There is nothing so bad in which there is not something good.
Things are never as bad as they seem.
When things are bad, they get good; and when they are good, they get bad.
There is no fault in a thing we want badly.
When a badman dies, he either goes to hell or to the Pecos.
A bag full of flour and a purse full of money are the best relatives in the world.
An empty bag cannot stand.
A little bait catches a large fish.
Better shun the bait than struggle on the hook.
It's the bait that lures, not the fisherman or the reel.
The bait hides the hook.
Without bait you can't catch fish.
Bait the hook well; the fish will bite.
Baiters are not choosers.
As they brew, so let them bake.
It's easy to bake when the meal is beside you.
Good bakers always make plenty of dough.
The balance doesn't distinguish between gold or lead.
After a hundred years we shall all be bald.
There is no cure for baldness; the bald-headed barber is the proof.
The balloon with the most air makes the loudest noise when it bursts.
No matter how you slice it, it's still baloney.
If you want roasted bananas, you must burn your fingers first.
Don't monkey with the bandwagon if you can't play the horn.
Banks have no heart.
A bankbook is the greedy man's Bible.
He that banquets every day never makes a good meal.
The man on the sober side of the bar is the one that gets the money.
The bars do not make the officer.
A barber learns to shave by shaving fools.
He is a sorry barber that has but one comb.
Some barbers are top-notchers.
The bad barber leaves neither hair nor skin.
The bald-headed barber preaches the miracles of hair tonic.
The barber shows you the mirror, but it's too late to raise a squawk.
The barber's tongue never stops wagging.
He that waits for a dead man's shoes may long go barefooted.
He who scatters thorns should not go barefooted.
A bargain is a bargain.
A bargain is a pinch-purse.
A bargain is not a bargain unless you can use the product.
A bargain is usually worth no more than you pay for it.
A bargain usually costs you more in the end.
Beware of too great a bargain.
If you make a bad bargain, hug it the tighter.
It always takes two to make a bargain.
It is a bad bargain when both are losers.
It's a bad bargain that can't run both ways.
It's a bad bargain to sell the bird on the bough.
Make the best of a bad bargain.
More words than one go to a bargain.
Never look an auto bargain under the hood.
Never make a bargain with the devil on a dark day.
On a good bargain think twice.
Bargaining has neither friends nor relations.
A dog's bark is worse than his bite.
The greatest barkers are not the greatest biters.
A barking dog never bites.
A barn, a fence, and a woman always need mending.
A barn is the foundation of a farm.
A big barn: the man is boss.
Better a barn filled than a bed.
Do not pull down your barns to build greater ones.
Don't shut the barn door after the horse is stolen.
Round Robin Hood's barn makes a tedious yarn.
The barn is never so full that you can't slap in a bundle at the door.
An empty barrel makes the most noise.
The barrel always smells of the herring.
The barrel is as strong as its hoops.
Thirteen staves and never a hoop will not make a barrel.
You cannot take more out of a barrel than you put into it.
A barren sow was never good to pigs.
At the table it becomes no one to be bashful.
It is only the bashful that lose.
Bashfulness is a great hindrance to a man.
Bashfulness is no use to the needy.
A birch-bark basket may be fair to see, but just to make one does not spoil a  tree.
He that makes one basket can make one hundred.
A bastard looks like his father.
A battery that won't produce light will ring a doorbell.
It is not the trumpeters that fight the battles.
The bigger the battle, the bigger the booty.
The harder the battle, the sweeter the victory.
The real battle of life isn't just winning your spurs, it's keeping them bright and  shining.
A bawl becomes a beller when the tongue is stickin' out.
Be that which you would make others.
Be what you appear to be.
Sometimes you be, and sometimes you be not.
To be, or not to be.
We ain't what we want to be, and we ain't what we are gonna be, but we ain't  what we waz.
What used to be will be again.
What will be will be.
It's better to be the beak of a hen than the tail of an ox.
Cast the beam out of your own eye before you try to cast the mote from the eyes  of your neighbor.
When the beans get too thick, the pot burns.
Beans ain't beans without sow belly.
It is better to have beans and bacon in peace than cakes and ale in fear.
Time to catch bears is when they're out.
When wrestlin' a bear, never grab for his tail.
Every man must bear his own burden.
We must bear and forbear.
He who has a beard buys himself a comb.
If the beard were all, the goat might preach.
A willful beast must have his own way.
Every beast but man keeps to a single dish.
The wild beast becomes timid and tame when he makes love to his mate.
There is no beast so savage that it sports with its mate.
If you can't beat them, join them.
You can't beat somebody with nobody.
The beaten road is the safest.
A dirty bread tray keeps beaus away.
No beaus go where the cobwebs grow.
Everything that is striking and beautiful is not good, but everything that is  honest and good is beautiful.
It hurts to be beautiful.
Nothing is beautiful from every point of view.
Beauty and folly are old companions.
Beauty comes from the soul.
Beauty comes from within.
Beauty doesn't make the pot boil.
Beauty draws more than oxen.
Beauty has no brains.
Beauty is a fading flower.
Beauty is a good client.
Beauty is a good letter of introduction.
Beauty is as beauty does.
Beauty is its own excuse for being.
Beauty is its own reward.
Beauty is loved without knowing anything; ugliness hated without being to  blame.
Beauty is no inheritance.
Beauty is no longer amiable than while virtue adorns it.
Beauty is one of God's gifts.
Beauty is only skin-deep.
Beauty is power: a smile is its sword.
Beauty is the bloom of youth.
Beauty is the flower of life, but virtue is the fruit.
Beauty is the mark God set upon virtue.
Beauty is truth, truth beauty.
Beauty is vain.
Beauty is worse than wine: it intoxicates both the holder and the beholder.
Beauty is yet the pleasing trickery that cheats half the world.
Beauty, like supreme dominion, is but supported by opinion.
Beauty, like truth, is never so glorious as when it goes plainest.
Beauty opens locked doors.
Beauty provokes thieves sooner than gold.
Beauty seen is never lost.
Beauty soon fades, but virtue lives forever.
Beauty vanishes; virtue endures.
Beauty walks while angels sleep.
Beauty without grace is the hook without the bait.
Beauty without honesty is like poison kept in a box of gold.
Beauty without virtue is a rose without fragrance.
Beauty's tears are only skin-deep.
She who is a beauty is half married.
Smoke follows beauty.
The only lasting beauty is the worthwhile sparkle that glows through.
There was never a beauty without aid.
There's no beauty like the beauty of the soul.
To see beauty you must have beauty in your soul.
When beauty is at the bar, blind men make the best jury.
Where beauty is, there will be love.
Where there is great beauty, there is great wickedness.
From beavers, bees should learn to mend their ways.
A bed of stones with friends is better than a bed of down with those we do not  love.
As one makes his bed, so must he lie.
Early to bed and early to rise makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise.
He that goes to bed thirsty, rises healthy.
Never go to bed with a misunderstanding.
No one gets out of bed to sleep on the floor.
Rather go to bed supperless than run in debt for a breakfast.
Too much bed makes a dull head.
A bee was never caught in a shower.
From the same flower the bee extracts honey and the wasp gall.
Hit takes a bee fer ter git de sweetness out'n de hoar-houn blossom.
If a bee didn't have a sting, he couldn't keep his honey.
If a bee stings you once, it's the bee's fault; if a bee stings you twice, it's your  own damn fault.
If you let the bee be, the bee will let you be.
It's the roving bee that gathers honey.
Mighty po' bee dat don't make mo' honey dan he want.
No bees, no honey; no work, no money.
Old bees yield no honey.
The bee that makes the honey doesn't stand around the hive, and the man who  makes the money has to worry, work, and strive.
The bee works in the summer and eats honey all winter.
The drone bee dies soon after the wedding night.
When the bee sucks, it makes honey; when the spider, poison.
Where there are bees, there is honey.
While honey lies in every flower, it takes a bee to get the honey out.
Beer before wine, you'll feel fine; wine before beer, you'll feel queer.
Beer is cheer.
Beer on whiskey, mighty risky; whiskey on beer, never fear.
They who drink beer think beer.
You must drink beer of your own brewing, no matter how bitter.
Look before or you'll find yourself behind.
When befriended, remember it; when you befriend, forget it.
Better to beg than to steal, but better to work than to beg.
He who begs timidly, courts refusal.
Who is not ashamed to beg, soon is not ashamed to steal.
 A beggar can never be bankrupt.
A beggar ennobled does not know his own kinsman.
Beggar is jealous of beggar.
Beggars can't be choosers.
Give a beggar a horse and he'll ride it to death.
I had rather be a beggar and spend my last dollar like a king, than be a king and  spend my money like a beggar.
It is better to be a beggar than a fool.
Neither beg of him who has been a beggar nor serve him who has been a  servant.
One day a beggar, the next a thief.
Sue a beggar, and you'll get a louse.
The angry beggar gets a stone instead of a handout.
The beggar is never out of his way.
The beggar may sing before the thief.
The beggar who becomes rich has the pride of Lucifer.
The beggar's wallet has no bottom.
They are but beggars that can count their worth.
Aspiring beggary is wretchedness itself.
What is got by begging is deeply bought.
Begin in time to finish without hurry.
 Begin nothing until you have considered how it is to be finished.
Better begin as you can hold out.
Better never begin than never make an end.
Never begin anything on Friday that you are not able to finish that day.
Well begun is half done.
Whenever you begins to git along good, de niggers will back-cap you.
 A bad beginning makes a good ending.
A good beginning is half the task.
A good beginning makes a good ending.
All great things had a small beginning.
Beware of beginnings.
Everything must have a beginning.
The beginning is not everything.
The beginning is the hardest.
The golden rule of life is, make a beginning.
There must be a beginning and an end to a thing.
Behavior is a mirror in which everyone shows his image.
Behavior that is regarded agreeable in one is very rude in another.
Good behavior is the last refuge of mediocrity.
True worth is in being, not seeming.
We are born believing a man bears beliefs as a tree bears apples.
Believe and conquer.
Believe only half of what you see and nothing you hear.
Believe well and have well.
He who believes easily is easily deceived.
He who believes has power to do.
He who does not believe finds others will not believe him.
It is better to believe that a man possesses good qualities than to assert that he  does not.
It is easier to believe than to doubt.
It Is easy to believe what you want to.
It makes no difference what a man believes if he is honest.
Men are most apt to believe what they least understand.
Never believe the impossible.
People are willing to believe alarming things to keep from believing what they  don't want to.
A believer is a songless bird in a cage.
Quick believers need broad shoulders.
Believing has a core of unbelieving.
Belittle others and be little.
A bell, once rung, cannot be rerung.
A cracked bell can never sound well.
As the bell is, so is the clapper.
If you hear one bell only, you hear but one sound.
The bell sends others to church but itself never minds the sermon.
The dinner bell is always in tune.
The loudest bell does not always have the sweetest tone.
A full belly makes a brave heart.
It's better a belly burst than good food waste.
Lean belly never feeds a fat brain.
When the belly is full, the bones are at rest.
If you'd be belov'd, make yourself amiable.
Below the belt all men are brothers.
Bend the rod while it's hot.
Bend the twig while it is still green.
Better bend the neck than bruise the forehead.
It is better to bend than break.
Much bending breaks the bow; much unbending, the mind.
Benefits, like flowers, please most when they are fresh.
Benefits turn poison in bad minds.
The last benefit is the most remembered.
We should never remember the benefits we have conferred nor forget the favors  received.
When you accept a benefit, you sell your freedom.
When you confer a benefit on a worthy man, you oblige all men.
If the Bermudas let you pass, you must beware of Hatteras.
Berries white, take flight; berries red, never dread.
Pick your berries so the thorns won't stick you.
The blacker the berry, the sweeter the juice.
The time to pick berries is when they're ripe.
A gutter berth, or maybe the paddy wagon, are fated for the man who loves to  quaff each flagon.
All is for the best.
Do your best and leave the rest with God.
Everything is best when it is ended.
For he who always does his best, his best will better grow; but he who shirks or  slights his task, he lets the better go.
Give to the world your best, and it will come back to you.
Good, better, best: never let it rest, until your good is better and your better,  best.
Hope for the best, but prepare for the worst.
If you wish to see the best in others, show the best of yourself.
The best is cheapest in the end.
The best is usually saved for last.
May the best day we have seen be the worst we have to come.
The best men are molded of their faults.
The best things are often least appreciated.
The best things in life are free.
A bet's a bet.
Bet a heap and begin to weep.
Bet 'em high and sleep on the streets.
If anyone betrays you once, it's his fault; if he betrays you twice, it's your fault.
Man's no better than he thinks he is.
A knowledge of the Bible without a college course is more valuable than a  college course without the Bible.
Be careful how you live: you may be the only Bible some people will ever read.
I'd rather be your Bible than your horse.
The Bible is printed in 610 different languages and read in none.
It is hard to be biddy and lady too.
A big head means a big headache.
A man is as big as the things that make him mad.
Big men are usually little men who took advantage of opportunity.
The big ones don't always get away.
When they're big enough, they're old enough.
Bigamy is having one wife too many; monogamy is the same.
The bigger the better.
The bigger the man, the better the mark.
The bigger the man, the smaller he becomes.
The bigger the man's head gets, the easier it is to fill his shoes.
The bigger the rock, the bigger the splash.
The bigger the tree, the harder she falls.
The bigger they come, the harder they fall.
It is always the biggest one that gets away.
'Tain't the biggest an' de strongest dat does de mostest in dis world.
A good biography is never written until after the person is dead.
A bird in the hand is better than two in the bush.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
A bird is known by his note and a man by his talk.
A bird may be ever so small, yet it always seeks a nest of its own.
A bird never flies so far that his tail doesn't follow.
A feather in the hand is better than a bird in the air.
A mockingbird has no voice of its own.
As a bird wanders from its nest, so a man wanders from his home.
As the old bird sings, so the young ones twitter.
Bad bird, bad eggs.
Better one bird in the bush than two in the tree.
Birds of a feather flock together.
Each bird likes his own nest best.
Every bird is known by its feathers.
Every bird likes to hear himself sing.
Every high-flying bird must at some time light.
Faraway birds have fine feathers.
Frightening a bird is not the way to catch it.
Hasty bird makes hasty nest.
Hit takes two birds fer to make a nes'.
It is the beautiful bird which gets caged.
It's an ill bird that fowls its own nest.
Little bird, little nest.
Little birds in their nests agree.
Little by little the bird builds his nest.
'Most kill bird don't make stew.
The bird that can sing and won't sing should be made to sing.
The early bird catches the worm.
The hit bird flutters.
There are no birds in last year's nest.
There is more than one way to kill a bird.
There never was a bird who flew so high but what he came down again.
Two birds in the bush are still two birds in the bush.
Two birds of prey seldom hunt together.
You can't keep the birds from flying over your head, but you can keep them  from building a nest in your hair.
You cannot catch old birds with chaff.
A man of high birth may be of low worth, and vice versa.
Birth is much, but breeding is more.
No man can help his birth.
Burned biscuits will not make a warm house.
Nobody is born learned; bishops are made of men.
A bit in the morning is better than nothing all day.
Every little bit added to what you have makes just a little bit more.
Every little bit counts.
Every little bit helps.
A golden bit does not make the horse any better.
The hasty bitch brings forth blind puppies.
Never make two bites at a cherry.
Don't bite the hand that feeds you.
Never bite on another man's game.
The biter is sometimes bit.
A man once bitten by a snake will jump at the sight of a rope in his path.
Once bitten, twice shy.
Every bitter has its sweet.
The bitter must come before the sweet.
Who has bitter in his mouth spits not at all sweet.
You have to take the bitter with the sweet.
Bitter is the bread of charity.
That which was bitter to endure may be sweet to remember.
Those who have not tasted the bitterest of life's bitters can never appreciate the  sweetest of life's sweets.
Blab is not cheer; froth is not beer.
Black is black and white is white.
Black will take no other hue.
Two blacks don't make a white.
From the black man keep your wife; with a red man beware your knife.
Rather eat blackberries than rabbits: they are less fatiguing to overtake.
One for the blackbird, one for the crow, one for the cutworm, and one for to  grow.
When things look blackest, happiness is often just around the corner.
Only the witless one expects the blacksmith to wear a white silk apron.
The blacksmith's horse and the shoemaker's family always go unshod.
Blame is safer than praise.
Blame is the lazy man's wages.
Avoid that which you blame in others.
When fools make mistakes, they blame it on Providence.
Blame-all and praise-all are two blockheads.
Don't rush off in the heat of the day without your blanket.
The Indian usually comes back to his blanket.
There is only one blasphemy, and that is injustice.
The blaze of glory is the firebrand of the mind.
Bless them which persecute you; bless and curse not.
He who blesses most is blessed.
Blessed are they that have not seen and yet have believed.
Blessed are they who expect nothing, for they shall not be disappointed.
Blessed is he who takes himself seriously.
Blessed is the man who, having nothing to say, says nothing.
To be blessed is not easy.
Blessings brighten as they take their flight.
Don't beg a blessing of a wooden god.
Everything depends on God's blessing.
Most blessings in disguise are painfully slow in unmasking.
The blessing of earth is toil.
In the land of the blind, the one-eyed are kings.
The blind are bold, but they stumble and fall.
A blind man can see his mouth.
A blind man is no judge of colors.
A blind man loses his staff only once.
A blind man may sometimes shoot a crow by accident.
A blind man needs no looking glass.
Better blind than burned.
If the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch.
It is worse to be blind than bald.
The blind man's peck should be well measured.
The blind man's wife needs no painting.
There are none so blind as those who cannot see.
We all have our blind spots.
A moment of bliss; lifetime of sorrow.
Every one to his bliss.
There is eternal bliss in a momentary kiss.
Who falls from all he knows of bliss cares little into what abyss.
If you get burnt you got to sit on the blister.
Don't be stumbling blocks but stepping-stones.
The only difference between stumbling blocks and stepping-stones is the way  you use them.
A learned blockhead is a greater blockhead than an ignorant one.
He who has to deal with a blockhead has need of much brains.
A blonde needs just enough perfume for you to know that she's around.
Blondes aren't the only people who are light-headed.
Blood and whiskey run together.
Blood asks blood, and death must death requite.
Blood boils without fire.
Blood follows the veins.
Blood is inherited and virtue acquired.
Blood is thicker than water.
Blood will tell.
Human blood is all one color.
New blood tells.
The blood of the martyrs is the seed of the church.
The blood remembers what the mind has never known.
You can't get blood out of a turnip.
Cleaning a blot with dirty fingers only makes a greater smear.
A blow from a lover is as sweet as eating raisins.
He who returns the first blow is the man who begins the quarrel.
Strike the first blow; it's as good as two.
The blow falls more lightly if you expect it.
The first blow does not fell the tree.
'Tis the second blow that makes the fray.
The blue of heaven is larger than the clouds.
True blue will never stain.
The bluejay never screams for nothing.
A blueberry is red when it is green.
If you're caught bluffing, you lose the pot.
Brooding over blunders is the biggest blunder.
A blush is beautiful but often inconvenient.
A blush on the face is better than a blot on the heart.
The Man that blushes is not quite a brute.
Blushing is virtue's color.
Elm boards will warp around your neck before you can get them from the mill.
The longer the board, the better the teeter.
Great boast, small roast.
Do not boast of a thing until it is done.
Such as boast much usually fall much.
A boaster and a liar are much about the same thing.
Great boaster, little doer.
Of boasting be more than of a bomb afraid, merit should be as modest as a  maid.
Where boasting ends, there dignity begins.
Don't complain of the boat that carries you over safely.
Every person should row his own boat.
Little boats should stay close to shore.
Sit still in the boat that carries you across deep water.
You can't go far in a rowboat without oars.
A deformed body may have a beautiful soul.
A strong body makes the mind strong.
Idle bodies are generally busybodies.
Little bodies have great souls.
Old in body, young in spirit.
The larger the body, the bigger the heart.
The weaker the body, the stronger the mind.
Though the body may be imprisoned, the soul can be free.
Ya have to summer an' winter a body before ya can git to know 'em.
Everybody thinks the boil on his own neck is the biggest.
We boil at different degrees.
Be bold, everywhere be bold, but be not bowled over.
He was a bold man who first ate an oyster.
Do boldly what you do at all.
He who talks boldly is quick to run away.
Boldness does not always succeed.
It takes a lot of bolts to hold a car together, but only one nut to scatter it all over  the highway.
The bonds of matrimony are like financial bonds: if the interest is not kept up,  they become worthless.
Disguise our bondage as we will, 'tis woman that rules us still.
Gnaw the bone which has fallen to your lot.
He that carries a bone will fetch one.
The closer to the bone, the sweeter the meat.
The sweetest meat is closest the bone.
What is bred in the bone will come out in the flesh.
What's in the bone is in the marrow.
Be ready with your bonnet but slow with your purse.
 A book is like a garden carried in the pocket.
A book may be as great a thing as a battle.
A book that remains shut is but a block.
A closed book does not produce a learned man.
A fancy cover doesn't make a fancy book.
A few books well chosen are of more use than a great library.
A good book is the best of friends, the same today and forever.
A man without books is like a king without money.
A wicked book is the wickeder because it cannot repent.
An old book wears well.
Beware of the man of one book.
Book larnin spiles a man ef he's got mother wit; and ef he ain't got that, et don't  do him no good.
Books alone can never teach the use of books.
Books and friends should be few and good.
Books are doors to wide new ways.
Books are our cheapest friends.
Books are ships that pass through the vast seas of time.
Books are the windows through which we see the world.
Books breed like flies and die as fast.
Books do not exhaust words, nor words thoughts.
 Books give not wisdom where none was before.
Everything is not in books.
Good books are friends who are always ready to talk to us.
Good books are the nourishment of youth.
He that gains well and spends well needs no account book.
It is a tie between men to have read the same book.
Old books are old friends.
Read much but not too many books.
Some books leave us free and some books make us free.
Something is learned every time a book is opened.
The best part of a book is not the thought it contains but the thought it suggests.
The man who doesn't read good books has no advantage over the man who can't  read them.
The two most useful books in married life are the cookbook and the checkbook.
To open a book brings profit.
Too many books make us ignorant.
Too many books spoil the student.
You are known by the books you read.
You can't judge a book by its cover.
He who throws boomerangs should learn to duck.
A booster won't knock and a knocker won't boost.
There's no boosting a man up the ladder unless he's willing to climb.
Don't try to pull youself up by your own bootstraps.
You can tell a man who boozes by the company he chooses.
A bore is a guy who is here today and here tomorrow.
It takes a bore to know a bore.
The man who disagrees with you is a bore.
A man is not completely born until he is dead.
As soon as man is born, he begins to die.
Every man born is not dead yet.
 He who is born round cannot die square.
We weep when we are born, not when we die.
Borrow and borrow adds up to sorrow.
Borrow will not pay debt.
One who borrows brews his own trouble.
To borrow or beg or get one's own, it is the very worst world that ever was  known.
A good borrower makes a poor lender.
Neither a borrower nor a lender be.
The borrower is a slave to the lender, the security to both.
The borrower runs in his own debt.
Beware of borrowing: it brings care by night and disgrace by day.
Borrowing is the mother of trouble.
Borrowing isn't much better than begging.
He that goes a-borrowing goes a-sorrowing.
A wise man's bosom is his trouble's tomb.
If you work for two bosses, you must lie to one of them.
The fellow who doesn't need a boss is often the one selected to be one.
The one who knows how will always find a place in life, but the one who  knows why will be his boss.
Save your bottles; it may rain whiskey.
You can't tell what's in the bottle by the label.
 You don't count the bottle, but you count what's in it.
If you're on the bottom, there's only one way to go--up.
Never let the bottom of your purse or your mind be seen.
The bottom of the ladder is crowded; there's plenty of room at the top.
The boughs that bear most hang lowest.
The rottenest bough cracks first.
What is bought is cheaper than a gift.
Well bought is half sold.
He that is bound must obey.
Bounty is more commended than imitated.
A bow too much bent will break.
Draw not your bow before your arrow is fixed.
Better bow than break.
Bowing to a dwarf will not prevent your standing erect again.
The empty bowl makes the most noise.
Two empty packing boxes make the most noise, but the squeaky wheel gets the  grease.
You must empty the box before you can fill it again.
A bad boy goes like a top--only when he's whipped.
A boy can't do a man's work.
A boy is better unborn than untaught.
 A boy is like a fountain--useful as long as there's something in him.
A boy should ask, and a girl deny.
A boy's best friend is his mother.
A growing boy has a wolf in his belly.
A small boy is an appetite with skin drawn over it.
Bad boys make bad men.
Boys and books do not mix.
Boys avoid the bees that stung 'em.
Boys seldom make passes for girls who wear glasses.
Boys who drive with one hand usually end up in church: some of them walk  down the aisle, some of them are carried.
Boys will be boys.
Building boys is better than mending men.
Don't send a boy to do a man's job.
Every time a boy goes wrong, a good man dies.
Geese on the mill pond, ducks on the ocean; boys can't get married till the girls  take a notion.
If boys were meant to smoke, they'd have chimneys on their heads.
If you want to get a boy, run away from him.
If you want to keep a boy out of the mud, blacken his boots.
It is a wise boy that knows that he isn't.
Little boys are made of rats and snails and puppy-dog tails.
Little boys who play with matches get their fingers burned.
Old boys have their playthings as well as young ones; the difference is only in  the price.
Once a bad boy and always a bad boy.
One boy's a boy; two boys, a half a boy; three boys, no boy at all.
Some boys grow with responsibilityothers just swell.
The boy is father to the man.
The boy of today will be the man of tomorrow.
The boy who does a stroke and stops will never a great man be.
The boys won't go where the cobwebs grow.
The least boy always carries the greatest fiddle.
Windy boys live stormy lives.
You can lead a boy to college, but you can't make him think.
You can take a boy out of the country, but you can't take the country out of the  boy.
You can tell a lot about the size of a boy by what he loses his head over.
Brag is a dog that everybody hates but nobody fears.
Old brag is a good dog, but hold fast is a better one.
Self brag, half scandal.
With every brag, the tighter the balloon; the tighter the balloon, the louder the  bang.
They brag most that can do least.
All are not braggarts that blow the horn.
Great braggarts are little doers.
All the brains are not in one head.
An idle brain is the devil's workshop.
Brain is worth more than brawn.
 Half a brain is too much for him who says little.
If the brain sows not corn, it plants thistles.
Most brains reflect but the crown of a hat.
No brains, no feelings.
Some people have brains, and then there are others.
The less the brains, the bigger the hat.
There's many witty men whose brains can't fill their bellies.
Use your brain and save your heels.
Using our brains is often wiser than depending on our strength.
We need brain more than belly food.
You can borrow brains, but you can't borrow character.
You don't need brains if you have luck.
A bramble does not produce grapes.
He who sows brambles reaps thorns.
If you mix with the bran, the cows will eat you.
The branch of the willow breaks not from the snow.
The highest branch is not the safest roost.
Those who cling must grasp branches, not blossoms.
Brandy is lead in the morning, silver at noon, gold at night.
Brass is some people's gold.
None but the brave deserve the fair.
The brave and the wise can both pity and excuse when cowards and fools show  no mercy.
The brave are born from the brave and good.
Be brave, not ferocious.
Gold is tried by fire, brave men by adversity.
It is easy to be brave from a safe distance.
The brave man has no country but mankind.
The brave man holds honor far more precious than life.
The brave man is daring enough to forgive an injury.
'Tis more brave to live than to die.
 Bravery is not lasting.
True bravery is without witness.
The braying of a jackass never reaches heaven.
All bread is not baked in one oven.
Bread always falls buttered side down.
Bread is the staff of life.
Bread today is better than cake tomorrow.
Cast your bread upon the water; it will return to you a hundredfold.
Don't butter your bread on both sides.
Dry bread at home is better than roast meat abroad.
Eat bread and drink water, and you will live a long life.
Eaten bread is soon forgotten.
For a piece of bread a man will transgress.
Give me yesterday's bread, this day's fish, and last year's cider.
He is rich enough that lacks not bread.
He who burns bread must hunger dread.
If they can't cat bread, let them eat cake.
If you hate a man, eat his bread; and if you love him, do the same.
If you have bread, don't look for cake.
If you have two loaves of bread, sell one and buy a lily.
In want of bread, it is well to have seniitas.
It is better to have bread left over than run short of wine.
It is hard to pay for bread that has been eaten.
It just takes a piece of bread to show what is in some folks.
It will never, never go to make two breads from one dough.
Let him that earns the bread eat it.
Never eat the bread of charity if you can avoid it.
The old bread goes out of the box first.
The whiter the bread, the sooner you're dead.
Who goes for a day into the forest should take bread for a week.
Whose bread I eat, his song I sing.
Work for your bread if you get your cheese for nothing.
 You buttered your bread; now eat it.
You can't eat the same bread twice.
Mend the first break, kill the first snake, and conquer everything you undertake.
After breakfast sit awhile; after supper walk a mile.
It's better to have bad breath than no breath at all.
Keep one's breath to cool one's soup.
The first breath is the beginning of death.
He is not well bred that cannot bear ill breeding in others.
It's hard to take breeches off of bare hips.
Breed is stronger than pasture.
A man's own good breeding is the best security against other people's ill  manners.
Good breeding carries along with it a dignity.
A good pair of breeks will cast down an old coat.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
Brevity makes the master.
As you brew, so must you drink.
Avoid all bribes.
You can't make bricks without straw.
A rich bride goes young to the church.
A sad bride makes a glad wife.
All brides are child brides in their mother's eyes.
 Happy is the bride the sun shines on.
It's a poor bride who cannot help some.
June brides, January mothers.
Always a bridesmaid but never a bride.
Don't burn your bridges behind you.
Don't cross the bridge till you come to it.
It is a good thing to make a bridge of gold to a flying enemy.
It is sometimes best to burn your bridges behind you.
Praise the bridge that carries you over.
It is better to be brief than tedious.
If you try to make some people see the bright side, they will complain that it  hurts their eyes.
Never think yourself so brilliant that you are blinded by your own light.
Better spare at the brim than at the bottom.
Whoever brings finds the door wide open for his reception--except when he  brings trouble.
When you's broke, dat's de time to ack stylish, so folks won't know you're  broke.
Nothing seems quite as good as new after being broken.
A broker is a man who runs your fortune into a shoestring.
No man can ride a bronco if he ain't split up the middle.
The toughest broncs is always them you've rode some other place.
A babbling brook makes much noise.
Little brooks make great rivers.
The brook would lose its song if you removed the rocks.
The shallow brook warbles, while the still water is deep.
A bad broom leaves a dirty room.
A new broom sweeps clean.
An old broom is better than a new one.
An old broom knows the corners of a house.
Good broth may be made in an old pot.
A brother may not be a friend, but a friend will always be a brother.
A brother offended is harder to be won than a strong city.
Between two brothers have two witnesses and a voting.
Brothers are like hands and feet.
Help your brother's boat across.
Take-it-easy and live-long are brothers.
To a brother's virtues be kind; to his faults be a little blind.
We can live without a brother, but not without a friend.
When you fight with a brother or sister, you're only hurting yourself, because  they are a part of you.
The man that blushes is not quite a brute.
The older the buck, the stiffer the horn.
The harder they buck, the easier they gentle.
Big buckets can be filled at small streams.
When the buds start on the trees, it is time to gather the buckets.
A budget is a method of worrying before you spend as well as afterward.
Bugs are bugs whether they bite or not.
If you fool with a tumble-turd bug, you are apt to be spattered.
'Twix de bug en de bee-martin 'tain't hard ter tell w'ich gwineter git kitch.
If you build according to advice of Tom, Dick, and Harry, you'll build a crazy  house where no man will tarry.
One should live to build, not to boast.
When we build, let us think that we build forever.
Never tear a building down from the bottom up.
A little bull goes a long way.
A mad bull is not to be tied up with a packthread.
Bulls with short horns stand close to the bar.
If you play with the bull, you will get a horn in the arse.
It makes a lot of difference whose bull gores the ox.
The bull must remember that he once was a calf.
When a bull once takes hold, nothing can make him let go.
You can't grow a two-year-old bull in a day.
Bullets through the heart make a dead echo.
Every bullet has its billet.
A bully is always a coward.
The bully bags a lion at a distance but runs when a mule starts kicking.
There are a lot of bumps on the road to easy street.
A burden becomes lightest when it is well borne.
A burden which one chooses is not felt.
A voluntary burden is no burden.
Bear one another's burdens.
Every man thinks his own burden the heaviest.
Everyone lays the burden on the willing horse.
Heavy burdens kill little people, but they make great ones.
Impose not a burden on others which you cannot bear yourself.
Only they who have borne burdens understand sympathy.
Other people's burdens killed the ass.
The burden is light on the shoulders of another.
The greater the burdens, the brighter the crown.
When we lift the burdens of others, we are developing strength to bear our own.
Your neighbor's burden is always light.
What won't burn needn't be blown.
Once burned, twice shy.
We got to be burned 'fore we learn.
Better to burp and bear the shame than swallow the burp and bear the pain.
A bad bush is better than the open field.
It's a low bush that the sun never shines on.
A business with an income at its heels always furnishes oil for its own wheels.
A shady business never yields a sunny life.
Business before pleasure.
Business goes where it is invited and stays where it is well treated.
Business is business.
Business is like a car: it will not run by itself, except downhill.
Business is like a wheelbarrow: it stands still until somebody pushes it.
Business is never so healthy as when, like a chicken, it must do a certain  amount of scratching for what it gets.
Business is the blood of our national life.
Business is to grown men what blocks are to children.
Business makes a man as well as tries him.
Business makes strange bedfellows.
Business neglected is business lost.
Business whets the appetite and gives a relish to pleasure.
Do not meddle with business you know nothing about.
Do right in your business; the rest will take care of you.
Do the business at hand first.
Drive your business or it will drive you.
Everybody ought to know his own business the best.
Everybody's business is nobody's business.
He who tends his own business has a good one.
If you want to do good business, do it with strangers, not your relatives.
If you would have your business done, go; if not, send.
It costs less to retain the business of an old customer than it does to get two new  ones.
It's a woman's business to get married as soon as possible, and a man's to keep  unmarried as long as he can.
Let nobody know your business.
Make it your business to know yourself.
Mind no business but your own.
No monkey business wanted around here.
Take care of your business and your business will take care of you.
Tell everybody your business and the devil will do it for you.
The business of America is business.
Those that have much business must have much pardon.
When you have business with a wolf, look out for trouble.
Where business and pleasure clash, then let the business go smash.
Where business starts, friendship ends.
You can't mix business and pleasure.
Marble busts are made of those who "raised Cain," not corn.
The busiest thing in the world is idle curiosity.
The busy man has few idle visitors: to the boiling pot the flies come not.
Busybodies never want a bad day.
Better to pay the butcher than the doctor.
Watch the butcher when he weighs the roast; otherwise you'll buy his hand.
The lazy butler takes eight steps to avoid one, but if he covers up his master's  missteps, he is never fired.
Your butler is always a gentleman; your neighbor's butler is a thief.
You don't have to eat a whole tub of butter to get the taste.
Butterflies store no money.
If you miss the first buttonhole, you will not succeed in buttoning up your coat.
A lot of "good buys" in Wall Street turn out to be "farewells.
Better a bad buy than a good loan.
Better buy than borrow.
Buy what you can and save what you earn.
Buy what you do not need and you will soon need what you cannot buy.
Buy while you can get it.
If you buy everything, the result will be that you sell everything.
Never buy anything before you see it.
Never buy what you do not want because it is cheap.
You can buy anything except day and night.
Let the buyer beware.
The buyer needs a thousand eyes; the seller wants but one.
The buzz of a mosquito can drown out the ocean's roar.
Don't monkey with the buzz saw.
A buzzard never makes a good hawk.
Buzzards fly high but roost on the ground.
Don't go to a buzzard's nest to find a dove.
Puttin' feathers on a buzzard won't make it no eagle.
Hard by the road called "by and by" there stands a house called "never.
Let bygones be bygones.
The innocent bystander often gets beaten up.
To the bystander no work is too hard.
C If you don't C sharp, you'll B flat.
If they ask you for cabbages, don't give them peas.
The cadaver is always right.
Caesar's wife must be above suspicion.
Render unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's.
A fine cage won't feed the hungry bird.
A golden cage is still a cage.
Give a bit of your cake to one who is going to eat pie.
When one has no flour, one bakes no cakes.
You can't have your cake and eat it too.
A calamity is often a blessing in disguise.
Calamity and prosperity are the touchstones of integrity.
Calamity is often a friend in disguise.
Calamity is the touchstone of a brave mind.
Calamity is virtue's opportunity.
Every calamity may be overcome by patience.
It were no virtue to bear calamities if we did not feel them.
Learned men make the calendar, but God makes the weather.
No one needs a calendar to die.
A bawling calf soon forgets its mother.
A blattin' calf is soon weaned.
A lean calf forgets to skip.
Give a calf enough rope and it will hang itself.
Newborn calves don't fear tigers.
Only a suckin' calf don't have to worry about grass.
You can't ever tell what a lousy calf will come to be.
Many are called but few are chosen.
No man can call again yesterday.
There is always a calm before a storm.
Calmness is a great advantage.
Calmness is but a lull before the storm.
Act uprightly and despise calumny; dirt may stick to a mud wall but not to a  polished marble.
Calumny is like coal--it either burns you or besmirches you.
Calumny will soil virtue itself.
To persevere in one's duty and be silent is the best answer to calumny.
Our crosses are hewn from different trees, but we all must have our calvaries.
If the camel once gets his nose in the tent his body will soon follow.
It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than it is for a rich man  to enter the kingdom of heaven.
A camera in the hand is worth two in the alley.
An empty can makes a lot of noise.
Bury can't and you'll find will.
Can't died in the cornfield.
Can't is a liar.
Can't is a sluggard, too lazy to work.
Can't is un-American.
Can't never could.
Can't was a coward.
Don't put your can't before your horses.
He can who thinks he can.
He who can does; he who can't teaches.
He who makes us do what we can is a friend.
I can't means I won't.
If you can't, don't hinder.
Multitudes can't because they think they can't.
Never say can't.
There's no such word as "can't.
They who cannot as they would must do as they can.
Those who can't, criticize.
Those who think they can't are generally right.
Don't burn the candle at both ends.
Don't hide a candle under a bush.
How far this little candle throws its beam, so shines a good deed in this naughty  world.
It is a poor sport that is not worth the candle.
It's always better to light a candle than to curse the darkness.
The candle does not give light to itself.
The darker the night, the brighter the candle.
The smallest candle fills a mile with its rays, and the papillae of a man run out  to every star.
To light your candle from mine won't take any off my brilliance.
When candles are out, all cats are gray.
When the candles are all out, all women are fair.
Don't pick women or horses by candlelight.
Candor breeds hatred.
Candor once went further boldly and in smiles, but it crept home in tatters and  tears.
Candor will lose you some friends, but not as many as deceit.
Women confess their small faults that their candor may cover great ones.
Candy is dandy, but liquor is quicker.
Paddle your own canoe.
Paddling your own canoe is good exercise.
If the cap fits, wear it.
A captain of industry is nothing but a buck private to his wife.
Two captains will sink a ship.
A car in every garage and a chicken in every pot.
Don't count your new cars before they're built.
If in the car you like to court, change your car to a davenport.
If you can't drive your car, park it.
It's the empty car that makes the most noise.
You can't judge a car by its paint job.
Where the carcass is, there will the eagles be gathered.
A card which never appears neither wins nor loses.
Cards and dice is like all in life; dey ever falls well for bold players.
Cards are the devil's tools.
Lucky at cards, unlucky in love.
Many can pack cards that cannot play.
The cards beat all the players, be they ever so skillful.
When cards begin, friendship ends.
A man does not die of care.
An ounce of care is worth a pound of cure.
Another's cares will not rob you of sleep.
Black care rarely sits behind a rider whose pace is fast enough.
Care and not the fine stables makes the good horse.
Care is beauty's thief.
Care killed the cat.
Care saves wear.
Good care prevents accidents.
Good care takes the head off danger.
He that speaks without care shall remember with sorrow.
Leave your cares to the wind.
Light cares speak; great ones are dumb.
Many cares make the head white.
Petty cares wear the soul out drop by drop.
To carry care into your bed is to sleep with a pack on your back.
Want of care does more harm than want of knowledge.
When everyone takes care of himself, care is taken of all.
Care not for that which you can never possess.
Don't care lost his corn patch.
To care is to share.
A career never takes the place of a home where love reigns.
A man with a crooked career never ends well.
Be careful but not full of care.
 It is better to be careful than sorry.
Do what you do carefully.
A careless watch invites the vigilant foe.
Careless hurry may cause endless regret.
Careless men come to a sudden and sorry end.
Careless shepherds make many a feast for the wolf.
Such as are careless of themselves are seldom mindful of others.
A caress is better than a career.
He that lives carnally won't live eternally.
A carpenter is known by his chips.
A lazy carpenter fights with his tools.
He's not the best carpenter that makes the most chips.
I envied my neighbor's carriage until I met the man who had no feet.
The carrion which the eagle has left feeds the crow.
Where the carrion is, there the eagles gather.
An empty cart rattles loudest.
An unhappy man's cart is easy to overthrow.
Don't put the cart before the horse.
It ain't the noisiest cart that's easiest upset.
It's easier to dump the cart than to load it.
The best cart may overthrow.
To make the cart go, you must grease the wheels.
From the very spoon the carver has carved, he'll have to swallow hot mustard.
A case well stated is half tried.
He who knows only his side of a case knows little of that.
Some people are born in the objective case.
Cash, and plenty of it, is the lifeblood of the nation.
Cash before virtue: there is time enough to be good.
Cash begets cash as credit begets creditors.
Take the cash, and let the credit go.
A cask and an ill custom must be broken.
Empty casks make the most noise.
Every cask smells of the wine it contains.
When the cask is full, the mother-in-law gets drunk.
Air castles are good; now put foundations under them.
Air castles are good to have in an earthquake.
Don't build your castles in the air.
Easy to keep the castle that was never besieged.
You can't build castles in the air and live in them.
The first casualty when war comes is truth.
A bad cat deserves a bad rat.
A cat has nine lives.
A cat may look at a king.
A cat with a silver collar is none the better mouser.
 A cat's courting is noisy.
A cornered cat becomes as fierce as a lion.
A lost cat always comes back.
A singed cat dreads the fire.
All cats are black at night.
Cat after kind.
Cats hide their claws.
Don't expect three legs on a cat when you know he has four.
He who plays with a cat must expect to be scratched.
If you can't feed the cats, you must feed the rats.
It is in his own interest that the cat purrs.
Keep no more cats than will catch mice.
Let a cat have kittens and they'll learn to catch mice.
Let every cat cover up his own stink.
Muffled cats are not good mousers.
One of the most startling differences between a cat and a lie is that a cat has  only nine lives.
Scalded cats fear even cold water.
Sleeping cats catch no mice.
The cat in gloves catches no mice.
The cat is a good friend, but she scratches.
The cat is honest when the meat is out of her reach.
The cat is mighty dignified until the dog comes by.
The cat that would eat fish must wet her feet.
The crying cat always gets the scratch.
The son of the cat pursues the rat.
There's just one way to rub a cat's fur.
There's more than one way to skin a cat without tearing the hide.
To a good cat a good rat.
Wait till we see how the cat jumps.
What is in the cat will come out in the kitten.
When the cat is full, then the milk tastes sour.
While the cat's away, the mice will play.
Who'll bell the cat? Rec.
You will never find a cat on a cold hearth.
Catch before hanging.
It's catch as catch can.
Once caught, twice shy.
Don't rush the cattle.
He who has fat cattle shall himself be fat.
A bad cause will ever be supported by bad means and bad men.
A good cause finds weapons to defend it.
A good cause makes a stout heart and a strong arm.
A man is a lion in his own cause.
Great causes are never tried on their merits.
It is an ill cause that none dare speak in.
Men are blind in their own cause.
Nothing ever comes to pass without a cause.
The best cause requires a good pleader.
The man with the worst cause makes the most noise.
They never fail who die in a great cause.
Caution is the best keeper of a castle.
Caution is the downfall to ambition.
Caution is the parent of safety.
Caution never brings regrets.
Don't throw caution to the wind.
Be cautious but polite.
Cautious men conceal knowledge, and the hearts of fools publish folly.
The cautious seldom cry.
The cautious seldom err.
January's blossoms fill no man's cellar.
Every man should have a fairsized cemetery in which to bury the faults of his  friends.
From the cemetery no one is brought back.
The cemeteries are filled with people who thought the world couldn't get along  without them.
It is the censors who inhibit the earth.
Censure is a tax which those who fill eminent situations must expect to pay.
Dere's come a day when you can't lay up a cent.
Some days you can't make a cent and the next day you spend it.
A man without ceremony has need of great merit in its place.
Ceremony is not civility, nor civility ceremony.
Excessive ceremony is a blind for bad morals.
Be certain and on the level; to trust on chance is to dance with the devil.
Nothing is certain except death and taxes.
Nothing is positively certain but uncertainty.
That is sufficiently certain which can be made certain.
Certainty is better than hope.
Never quit certainty for hope.
A clean cesspool is better than a typhus serum.
A chain is no stronger than its weakest link.
Chains of gold are stronger than chains of iron.
If you resent your chains, you are half free.
Men rattle their chains to show that they are free.
Easy chair: the hardest one to find empty.
If you try to sit on two chairs, you'll sit on the floor.
We have chairs and ears for chums.
Empty chambers make foolish maids.
A champion is always a fair mark.
Blind chance sweeps the world along.
Chance contrives better than we ourselves.
Chance dispenses life with unequal justice.
Chance is the fool's name for fate.
Chances rule men, and not men chances.
Do it well, for you may not get a second chance.
Keep a cool head and bide your time: a chance is bound to come.
Many a man who takes a chance would be mighty glad to put it back.
Moses took a chance.
Never lose a chance of doing a good deed.
Never take a chance till the odds are in your favor.
Something has to be left to chance.
The more you lean on somebody else, the leaner are your chances of success.
Whom chance often passes by, it finds at last.
Be sure you can better your condition before you make a change.
Change of fortune hurts a wise man no more than a change of the moon.
Change of pasture makes fat calves.
Change of scenery makes for health.
In this world nothing is permanent except change.
Many changes can take place on a spring day.
Popularity is glory's small change.
There is a certain relief in change, even though it be from bad to worse.
To an optimist every change is a change for the better.
 We are very apt not to notice little changes in those we see every day.
All things change, and we with them.
Bear, and blame not, what you cannot change.
Change seldom, for changes are inconvenient.
No change in circumstances will change a defect in character.
The more it changes, the more it remains the same.
The nature of things doesn't change.
Sit tight: you may do worse by changing your position.
We do not always gain by changing.
When you're through changing, you're through.
We are all channel swimmers, swimming the channel of life.
Chaos always precedes order.
Chaperons are necessary evils.
The best chaperon a girl can have is to be in love with another fellow.
 A brave and gentle character is often found under the humblest garb.
A character, like a kettle, once mended, always needs mending.
Avoid bad characters.
Character and hard work go together in nine cases out often.
Character is destiny.
Character is much easier kept than recovered.
Character is the cornerstone of success.
Character is the diamond that scratches every other stone.
Character is what we are; reputation is what others think we are.
Character is what you are in the dark when no one is around.
Character, like embroidery, is made stitch by stitch.
Character, not happiness, is the end of life.
If you take care of your character, your reputation will take care of itself.
It takes a lifetime to build up a character, but you can lose it in a very short  time.
Like a fence, character cannot be strengthened by whitewash.
Man's character is no better than he is.
Man's only real possession is his character.
Our character is our will; for what we will we are.
Strong character depends not so much upon chances as upon choices.
The man that makes a character makes foes.
There is no gain in subtracting from your character to add to your popularity.
We pass for what we are; character teaches above our wills.
You can tell the character of a woman by the house she keeps.
You cannot build character and courage by taking away man's initiative and  independence.
You cannot dream yourself into a character; you must forge one out for  yourself.
Charity begins at home.
Charity covers a multitude of sins.
Charity gives itself rich; covetousness hoards itself poor.
Charity is a rarity.
Charity is a virtue of the heart and not of the hand.
Charity is friendship in common, and friendship is charity enclosed.
 Charity is not a bone you throw to a dog but a bone you share with a dog.
Charity is the father of sacrifice.
He that feeds upon charity has a cold dinner and no supper.
He that has no charity deserves no mercy.
He who depends on charity soon learns to fast.
Proportion your charity to the strength of your estate, or God will proportion  your estate to the weakness of your charity.
The best charity is justice to all.
The roots of charity are always green.
Wanted: not charity but a fair chance.
What you give in charity in this world you take with you after death.
An ounce of charm is worth a pound of lure.
As charms are nonsense, nonsense is a charm.
Charm strikes the sight, but merit wins the soul.
The chase is better than the kill.
The chase of gain is rich in hate.
Chaste is she whom no one has asked.
By no art can chastity, once injured, be made whole.
Chastity is a virtue with some, with the majority almost a vice.
Chattering won't make the pot boil.
All things are cheap to the saving, dear to the wasteful.
Cheap goods always prove expensive.
Cheap things are not good, good things are not cheap.
Cheapest is dearest.
 Cheapest is the dearest labor.
Dear is cheap; cheap is dear.
Two can live as cheap as one.
Cheapness moves to laughter; dearness, to tears.
He who cheats another cheats himself most.
If you would not be cheated, ask the price at three shops.
It is better to be cheated than not to trust.
The surest way to be cheated is to think one's self more clever than other  people.
A skillful cheater needs no assistance.
Cheaters never prosper.
The cheater finally winds up by cheating himself.
The cheating wife doubts the chastity of all women.
Small cheer and great welcome make a merry feast.
A cheerful look makes a dish a feast.
Cheerfulness, helpfulness, and honesty are fine, good companions to take with  you through life.
Cheerfulness is perfectly consistent with piety.
Cheerfulness is the principal ingredient in health.
Constant cheerfulness is a sign of true wisdom.
So of cheerfulness or of good temper, the more it is spent, the more of it  remains.
After cheese comes nothing.
Cheese and bread make the cheeks red.
Cheese and salt meat should be sparingly eat.
Cheese digests all things but itself.
Cheese is wholesome when it is given with a sparing hand.
It takes two old women to make a cheese: one to hold and the other to squeeze.
The king's cheese goes half away in parings.
The miser's cheese is wholesomest.
Where there's cheese, there's always mice.
Life is but a bowl of cherries.
Stolen cherries are the sweetest.
The higher you climb the cherry tree, the sweeter you find the cherries.
Those that eat cherries with great persons shall have their eyes squirted out with  stones.
Little chests may hold great treasures.
You can chew it even if you can't swaller it.
Chicken ain't nothin' but a bird.
Chickens today, feathers tomorrow.
Chickens will always come home to roost.
Don't count your chickens before they are hatched.
It is better to be a live chicken than a dead one.
It's a mighty poor chicken that can't scratch up his own food.
Keep your chickens in your own backyard.
The last chicken is the hardest to catch.
There are more ways to kill a chicken than to kiss him to death.
Chide not severely nor punish hastily.
Too many chiefs and not enough braves.
A bitten child dreads a dog.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
A child and a fool imagine twenty shillings and twenty years can never be  spent.
A child learns to talk in about two years, but it takes about sixty years for him to  learn to keep his mouth shut.
A child must learn to crawl before it can walk.
A child needs love the most when he deserves it the least.
A child that won't hear will feel.
A child without parents is like a ship without a rudder.
A child's spirit is easily broken and difficult to heal.
A lot of a child's welfare can be done with a razor strap.
A man among children will be long a child.
 Even a child makes himself known by his doings.
Give a child his will and whelp his fill, and neither will thrive.
If a child cuts its finger, it has cut its mother's heart.
It is a wise child that knows its own father.
Never argue with a child or a fool.
Once a man, twice a child.
Teach a child to hold his tongue: he will learn fast enough to speak.
The child is father of the man.
The future of a child is the work of the mother.
The great man is he who does not lose his child's heart.
The hardest job a child faces is that of learning manners without seeing any.
There are four things every child needs.
To a child, all weather is cold.
To spoil a child is to kill it.
Train up a child in the right way; when he is old he will not depart from it.
What a child does at home, it will do abroad.
When a child is little, it pulls at your apron strings.
With seven nurses a child will be without eyes.
You can always tell a youngest child, but you can't tell him much.
Childhood should be happy and carefree.
Childhood shows the man as morning shows the day.
We can forget our childhood, but we cannot deny it.
Children and fools have merry lives.
Children and fools speak the truth.
Children and princes will quarrel for trifles.
Children are love made visible.
Children are poor men's riches.
Children are so happy because they live a day at a time.
Children are the keys of paradise.
Children are to be seen and not heard.
Children are what their mothers are.
Children can teach old folks.
Children, chickens, and women never have enough.
Children: one is one, two is fun, three is a houseful.
Don't slap your children in the face, for the Lord prepared a better place.
Go not with bad children.
He that has no children brings them up well.
It takes children to make a happy home.
Late children, early orphans.
Little children have big ears.
Little children, little troubles; big children, big troubles.
Little children step on your toes; big children step on your heart.
Send the children to town and you'll have to go yourself.
Undutiful children make wretched parents.
What children hear at home soon flies abroad.
When children stand quiet, they have done some harm.
Yuh might as well die wid de chills ez wid de fever.
A smoky chimney and a scolding wife are two bad companions.
Every chimney smells of smoke.
It's easier to build two chimneys than to keep one in fuel.
When a chimney smokes the meal is being cooked.
Don't lead with your chin.
Keep your chin up.
China and reputations are alike: easily cracked but not easily mended.
A chip on the shoulder has broken the life of many a man.
A chip on the shoulder is a good indication of wood higher up.
Let the chips fall where they may.
Look not too high lest a chip fall in your eye.
He that has a choice has trouble.
Never try to change the choice of a woman's heart.
Of what use is it to pretend there is a choice when there is none? Rec.
The burden of one's own choice is not felt.
The obvious choice is usually a quick regret.
There is little choice in a barrel of rotten apples.
There's no choice among stinking fish.
Never choose between two good things; take 'em both.
A Christian is God Almighty's gentleman.
Christians are like green tea: you don't know its strength until it is put in hot  water.
If it's wrong for a Christian to do something, then it's surely wrong for a sinner  to do the same thing.
It costs something to be a Christian, but it costs more to be a sinner.
It is far more Christian to praise a thornbush for its roses than to damn a  rosebush for its thorns.
A green Christmas, a white Easter.
A green Christmas means a fat graveyard.
Christmas comes but once a year.
Ground chucks get to be riders; riders get to be ground chucks.
 A church debt is the devil's salary.
A church is God between four walls.
Better to come late to church than never.
Church is not out 'til they sing.
Floating church members make a sinking church.
He who rings the church bells is safe.
If you go to church for an evil purpose, you go to God's house on the devil's  errand.
New churches and new bars are well patronized.
Right church but wrong pew.
The nearer the church, the farther from God.
There is no life in a church that does not produce praying members.
When the church of God is in people's hearts, it will get into their schedule.
You can't build a church with stumbling blocks.
A piece of churchyard fits everybody.
Stroke a churl and he'll scratch; strike him and he'll submit.
Cider makes the belly wider.
Never praise your cider or your horse.
You can't make a cigar out of a pig's tail.
Every cigarette is another nail in your coffin.
A light cinch is best.
 Best draw a tight cinch.
It's too late to throw water on the cinder when the house is burned down.
Cinderella's coach turns to a pumpkin.
Circles, though small, are yet complete.
Be not discouraged by adverse circumstances.
Circumstances alter cases.
New circumstances, new controls.
A good citizen owes his life to his country.
A city that sits on a hill cannot be hid.
It's not the city that ruins the man, but the life.
The city for wealth, the country for health.
The city is recruited from the country.
The city slicker does not always flicker.
A civil denial is better than a rude grant.
Be civil to all, sociable to many, familiar with few.
Be civil to every man; you know not who may prove to be your friend.
Civil language costs little and does good.
Civility is a kind of charm that attracts the love of all men.
Nothing costs less than civility.
Civilization and profits go hand in hand.
Civilization begins at home.
Civilization degrades the many to exalt the few.
The clay replies not to the potter.
Unless the clay is well pounded, no pitcher can be made.
We are clay in the hands of the potter.
We, like clay, are molded.
We're all of common clay.
Clean around your own back door before you clean around someone else's.
Clean as you go.
Above all things, keep clean; it is not necessary to be a pig in order to raise one.
One keep clean is worth ten make cleans.
There's no one so clean that somebody doesn't think they're dirty.
Saturday's cleaning will not last through Sunday, but Sunday's will last all  week.
Cleanliness is akin to godliness.
Cleanliness is the poor man's luxury.
Clemency is the brightest jewel in a crown.
The greatest clerks are not always the wisest men.
He who knows others is clever; he who knows himself is enlightened.
He who would be too clever makes a fool of himself.
It is not clever to play but to stop playing.
Cleverness does not take the place of knowledge.
Cleverness is serviceable for everything, sufficient for nothing.
What's the use of cleverness, if foolishness serves? Rec.
Change your climate, not your mind.
The only perfect climate is in bed.
We may achieve climate, but weather is thrust upon us.
The higher the climb, the broader the view.
Climb not too high lest the fall be greater.
He climbs highest who helps another up.
He that climbs the tall tree has a right to the fruit.
It is harder to climb the mountain than to climb down.
Who never climbed never fell.
Hasty climbers have sudden falls.
A clique is a friendship gone to seed.
Have not the cloak to be made when it begins to rain.
Under a good cloak may be a bad man.
You can't make a good cloak out of bad cloth.
A clock that stands still is better than one that goes wrong.
A fellow who works by the clock never earns the price of a watch.
An alarm clock will wake a man, but he has to get up by himself.
Even a stopped clock is right twice a day.
God's clock strikes on time.
Look at the clock and see how the minutes fly; you shall be a man by and by.
The clock of the tongue should be set by the dials of the heart.
The man who watches the clock generally remains one of the hands.
Two clocks don't run alike; two men don't think alike.
Women's clocks will walk with every wind.
Close counts only in horseshoes.
No need closing the door after the horse is stolen.
Cut the coat according to the cloth.
It is a bad cloth indeed that will take no color.
Measure your cloth ten times; you can cut it but once.
No man puts a piece of new cloth unto an old garment.
A fellow feels considerably like the clothes he wears.
Borrowed clothes never fit.
Clothes don't make the man.
Clothes speak for men, making or closing their opportunities.
Dirty clothes are washed at home.
Don't throw out old clothes before you get new ones.
Fine clothes do not make the gentleman, except when he travels abroad.
Fine clothes may disguise, silly words will disclose a fool.
Good clothes open all doors.
He who was born first has the greatest number of old clothes.
In clothes we value novelty, in men old age.
It is not the clothes that count, but the things the clothes cover.
Many bring their clothes to church rather than themselves.
Sew your clothes upon your back; care and trouble you'll never lack.
Some clothes catch everything except men and money.
The best-fitting clothes wear out the fastest.
The putting on of the clothes is not the taking off of them.
Through tattered clothes small vices do appear.
You may change the clothes; you cannot change the man.
Don't spread your clothing near the quiet brook.
After clouds, clear weather.
Black clouds thunder a great deal but rain little.
Every cloud has a silver lining.
Every cloud is not a sign of a storm.
He that pries into the clouds may be struck with a thunderbolt.
One cloud is enough to eclipse all the sun.
Somewhere behind the clouds the sun is shining.
The higher the clouds, the fairer the weather.
What is one man's cloud is another man's sunshine.
Cloudy mornings may turn to clear evenings.
Change not a clout till May be out.
A clown who strikes it rich disowns his own parents.
Clowns are best in their own company, but gentlemen are best everywhere.
Crowning a clown won't make him a king.
Give a clown your finger and he'll take your whole hand.
Best clubs are found under a hickory tree.
Coal doesn't shine around diamonds.
The man who carries coal to Newcastle will pour water on a drowned mouse.
A smart coat is a good letter of introduction.
If the coat fits, put it on.
It is not the gay coat that makes the gentleman.
It's the coat that makes the man, not the pants.
One should turn his coat according to the weather.
The coat and pants do all the work, and the vest gets all the gravy.
When a man's coat is threadbare, it is easy to peck a hole in it.
You can't always tell what is under a worn coat.
You can't make a good coat out of bad wool.
You must cut your coat according to your cloth.
A cobbler's child is always the worst shod.
All cobblers go barefoot.
Let the cobbler stick to his last.
The richer the cobbler, the blacker his thumb.
Where cobwebs grow, beaus don't go.
A cock is mighty in his own backyard.
As the old cock crows, the young cock learns.
If you are a cock, crow; if a hen, lay eggs.
The cock crows at sunrise to tell us to rise.
Young cockerels ever crow the loudest.
Coffee boiled is coffee spoiled.
Good coffee should be black as sin, strong as the devil, and hot as hell.
A coin is the best friend.
Cold and cunning come from the north, but cunning sans wisdom is nothing  worth.
Cold in the head is better than nothing.
Feed a cold and starve a fever.
When day is lengthened, cold strengthens.
Collectors meet many men of promise.
When the bill collector knocks at the door, love flies out the window.
Colleges hate geniuses, just as convents hate saints.
There is no greater college than the college of hard knocks.
All colors will agree in the dark.
Everything is according to the color of the glass with which one views it.
Never wear more than three colors at once.
To the color-blind, all colors are alike.
A colt is worth nothing if it does not break its halter.
Many a shabby colt makes a fine horse.
The colt can't pace if the mare trots.
The wilder the colt, the better the horse.
You may break a colt but not an old horse.
Columbus took a chance.
Don't comb your hair if you are bald.
Coming down is easier than going up.
Always obey the second command.
Command wants no equal.
No one has a finer command of a language than he who keeps his mouth shut.
If you can't command yourself, you can't command others.
If you command wisely, you are willingly obeyed.
If you wish to command, learn to obey.
Too many commanders cause confusion in the ranks.
When one has broken the tenth commandment, the others are not of much  account.
He who commences many things finishes but few.
Commerce flourishes by circumstances precarious.
A handful of common sense is worth a bushelful of learning.
Common sense is always worth more than cunning.
Common sense is genius dressed in its working clothes.
Common sense is the growth of all countries.
Common sense is the rarest thing in the world and the most valuable.
Common sense is very uncommon with a lot of people.
Fine sense and exalted sense are not half so useful as common sense.
Nothing astonishes men so much as common sense and plain dealing.
Where common sense is wanting, everything is wanting.
Evil communications corrupt good manners.
There are three types of communication: telephone, telegraph, and tell a  woman.
A good companion makes good company.
A good companion makes heaven out of hell.
A man knows his companions in a long journey and a small inn.
A wicked companion invites us all to hell.
Bad companions corrupt good morals.
Best companions are innocence and health.
Everybody's companion is nobody's friend.
No companion can be better for us than gratitude in the darkness.
Show me your companions, and I'll tell you who you are.
Your companions are your mirrors and show you yourself.
A man in vicious company is among his enemies.
A man is known by the company that he organized.
Cheerful company shortens the miles.
Company in distress makes trouble less.
Company in misery makes it light.
Company on Monday, company all week.
Fish and company smell after three days.
Folks go to hell to find exciting company.
Having finished the meal, the company leaves.
If you have company, just put another cup of water in the gravy.
Keep good company and you shall be of the number.
Keep not ill company lest you increase the number.
One is known by the company he keeps.
Show me your company, and I'll tell you who you are.
The company makes the feast.
The smaller the company, the greater the feast.
Two is company, three is a crowd.
Who keeps company with a wolf learns to howl.
You are judged not by the company you keep but by the company which keeps  you.
Comparisons are odious.
Comparisons make enemies of our friends.
Nothing is good or bad but by comparison.
Compassion will cure more than condemnation.
Compete not with persons who have means beyond your reach.
Competition increases the desire.
Competition is the life of trade.
Competition is the spice of business.
Competition makes a horse race.
The only competition worthy of a wise man is with himself.
Complacency is more persuasive than anger.
They complain most who suffer least.
Constant complaints never get pity.
Everyone has a complaint of some kind.
Those who are free with complaints have little else to offer.
Complaisance obliges while it reprimands.
Compliments cost nothing, but many pay dear for them.
Exchanging compliments is intellectual back scratching.
Not even a school teacher notices bad grammar in a compliment.
There's compliments you can return and there's compliments you can't.
Vain compliments are mere equivocations.
He that complies against his will is of his own opinion still.
Compromise makes a good umbrella but a poor roof.
Every compromise is surrender and invites new demands.
Conceit grows as natural as the hair on one's head but is longer in coming out.
Conceit is as natural to the human mind as a center is to a circle.
Conceit is like mustard plaster: it hurts no one but yourself.
Conceit is nature's gift to small men to make up for that which they don't have.
Conceit is the most incurable disease that is known to the human soul.
Conceit is the self-satisfaction of a jackass.
Conceit may puff a man up but never props him up.
If conceit were consumption, we would have a green graveyard all year round.
Self-conceit may lead to self-destruction.
Every man has a right to be conceited until he is successful.
Concessions may gain ground.
Men often condemn others for what they see no wrong in doing themselves.
People condemn what they do not understand.
No man should be condemned unheard.
Be sure you can better your condition before you make a change.
Condition is go percent of the game.
Conditions make; conditions break.
If a man thinks about his physical or moral condition, he generally finds he is  ill.
Conduct has the loudest tongue.
Pursue in health that conduct which you promise in sickness.
Confess and be hanged.
A generous confession disarms slander.
An honest confession is good for the soul.
Confession is a luxury of the weak.
Have but a few confidants; the fewer the better.
Confide not in him who has deceived you.
God save me from those I confide in.
Confidence begets confidence.
Confidence is a plant of slow growth.
Confidence of success is almost success.
False confidence often leads to disaster.
They are the weakest, however strong, who have no confidence in their own  ability.
There never was a conflict without a woman.
He conquers twice who conquers himself.
He conquers who endures.
He that conquers himself conquers an enemy.
He that conquers must fight.
He who conquers himself conquers the world.
The man who conquers sticks to his guns.
They conquer who believe they can.
To conquer others, you must first conquer yourself.
Pity the conquered; you might be beaten yourself some day.
No man is such a conqueror as the man who has defeated himself.
The conqueror is always right, the conquered always wrong.
A bad conscience is an accuser, judge, witness, and hangman.
A clean conscience is a good pillow.
A clean conscience is better than a clean face.
A clear conscience can bear any trouble.
A clear conscience fears no accuser.
A clear conscience is a coat of mail.
A clear conscience is God's greatest gift.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
A guilty conscience never feels secure.
An evil conscience breaks many a man's neck.
An evil conscience is the most unquiet companion.
Conscience gets a lot of credit that belongs to cold feet.
Conscience is an anticipation of the opinions of others.
Conscience is God's presence in man.
Conscience is the court of justice.
Conscience makes cowards of us all.
Keep conscience clear, then never fear.
Let your conscience be your guide.
There is a Sunday conscience as well as a Sunday coat.
There is no hell like a bad conscience.
What you take lightly on your conscience you'll feel heavily on your back.
You can't kid your conscience.
You cannot hide from your conscience.
The consciousness of duty performed gives us music at midnight.
Men are conservative after dinner.
He who considers too much will perform little.
Consideration gets as many victories as rashness.
Consideration is due to all things.
Few envy the consideration enjoyed by the oldest inhabitant.
Consistency is a jewel.
Consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds.
Seek not to be consoled but to console.
Some people are conspicuous by their presence, and others by their absence.
Constancy is the foundation of all virtues.
There is nothing constant but inconsistency.
The Constitution rides behind, and the big stick rides before.
Premature consultation is but the remembrance of sorrow.
Contempt is the best return for scurrility.
Contempt of a man is the sharpest reproof.
 Contempt will sooner kill an injury than revenge.
Contempt with familiarity does grow.
What our contempt does often hurl from us we wish ours again.
There is none more contemptible than a man that is a fortune hunter.
Better little with content than much with contention.
Content in the humblest dwelling is better than care in the most splendid palace.
Content is more than a kingdom.
Content makes poor men rich; discontent makes rich men poor.
He who wants content can't find it in an easy chair.
In the voyage of life, may content be our fellow passenger.
A contented mind is a continual feast.
Be content with your lot.
 He who is content has enough.
No man is content with his own lot.
To be content, look backward on those who possess less than yourself, not  forward on those who possess more.
To be content with little is true happiness.
In a hundred ells of contention, there is not an inch of love.
Religious contention is the devil's harvest.
Contentment is better than riches.
Contentment is to the mind as light to the eye.
Contentment is worn as a crown of sleepy heads.
Mighty contests rise from trivial things.
Continuity is the father of success.
A contract founded in evil or against morality is void.
A verbal contract isn't worth the paper it's written on.
Contracts should never be undertaken unless they can be strictly performed.
Contradict with respect and be complaisant without fawning.
Contradiction begets heat.
Where there is no contradiction, there is no argument.
Contrivance is as good as hard work.
Hard living makes contrivance.
To control others, learn first to control yourself.
Controversy should ever be free from the prejudices of sect and party.
Conveniences have their inconveniences, and comforts their crosses.
Men like conventions because men made them.
Conversation, however light, should never approach the confines of impurity.
Conversation is the music of the mind.
The conversation of a woman is worth all the libraries in the world.
When there is a gap in the conversation, don't put your foot into it.
Your conversation is the mirror of your thoughts.
Conversational floodgates are always open.
Converse so as to please others, not in order to please yourself.
He that converses not knows nothing.
You have not converted a man because you have silenced him.
Only a convict likes to be stopped in the middle of a sentence.
Not he who has many ideas but he who has one conviction may become a great  man.
Convince a man against his will, he is of the same opinion still.
A cook is no better than her stove.
All are not cooks who sport white caps and carry long knives.
Every cook knows to lick her own fingers.
Every cook praises his own broth.
He's an ill cook that can't lick his own fingers.
One cook's a cook, two cooks are half a cook, and three cooks are no cook at  all.
Pity on the cook who can't get enough to eat.
The cook that's with you in the morning is against you in the afternoon.
Too many cooks spoil the broth.
Cookie today, crumb tomorrow.
A man should study ever to keep cool.
Keep cool and you command everybody.
Play it cool, but don't freeze up.
A young coon for running, but an old coon for cunning.
You can't get all your coons up one tree.
Cooperation is the natural law of progress.
Cooperation isn't letting the other fellow do all the work.
If you don't believe in cooperation, watch what happens to a wagon when one  wheel comes off.
If you think cooperation is unnecessary, just try running your car a while on  three wheels.
A corkscrew never pulled one out of a hole.
Corkscrews have sunk more people than corkjackets will ever save.
A full car of corn will bend its head; an empty ear will stand upright.
Corn makes mo' at de mill dan it does in de crib.
Corn should be knee high by the Fourth of July.
 Don't measure my corn by your bushel.
 Don't shuck your corn till the hogs come home.
Even the corn has ears.
If the corn's not shelled, drive on.
 If you plant corn, buy a grinder.
If you want to raise corn, plant corn seed, not cotton seed.
In planting corn, four kernels to a hill: one for the blackbird, one for the crow,  one for the cutworm, and one to grow.
More corn grows in crooked rows.
Plow deep while sluggards sleep, and you will have corn to sell and to keep.
The more you take care of corn and politics, the better they grow up.
There's no corn without chaff.
Thunder in March, corn to parch.
You can't grind corn with the water that has passed.
You can't have the car unless you plant the corn.
 You cannot cut corn unless there is corn to cut.
An empty corncrib needs no roof.
Brighten the corner wherever you are.
Do the corners first, and the middle will take care of itself.
Every house has its dirty corner.
If you want to live on the square, don't cut the corners.
Take time in turning a corner.
We should always keep a spare corner in our head to give passing hospitality to  our friends' opinions.
Cornpone, hog jaw, and salt are fit for a king.
Blessed is the corpse the rain falls on.
Don't count your corpses before they're cold.
I'd rather be scared a minute than be a corpse the rest of my life.
 Three times a pallbearer, once a corpse.
Where the corpse is, there the vultures gather.
Correction does much, but encouragement everything.
Correction is good when administered in time.
Corruption will find a dozen alibis for its evil deeds.
He that counts all costs will never put a plow in the earth.
The cost often spoils the relish.
The cost takes away the taste.
What costs, counts.
What costs little is little respected.
A lot of good cotton stalks get chopped up for associating with weeds.
More cotton will grow in a crooked row than in a straight acre.
Counsel after action is like rain after harvest.
Counsel in the heart of man is like deep water.
Counsel must be followed, not praised.
Do not darken counsel with words without knowledge.
 Evil counsel marches with seven-league boots.
Examine well the counsel that favors your desires.
Good counsel brings good fruit.
Good counsel is a pearl beyond price.
Good counsel is cast away upon the selfconceited.
Good counsel never comes too late.
If the counsel is good, take it, even from a fool.
Take counsel in wine but resolve afterwards in water.
The wise man keeps his own counsel.
Three may keep counsel if two be away.
Where no counsel is, the people fall.
He that will not be counseled cannot be helped.
Good counselors lack no clients.
Wrong count is no payment.
Don't count yourself too many.
What counts most is what you've got under your hat.
The countenance is the index of the mind.
A country, to be loved, must be lovely.
A man's country is where the things he loves are most respected.
Countries are not more numerous than customs.
Every country has its own customs.
S.
Go to the country to hear the news of the town.
In the country one does not lose faith.
It's sweet to die for one's country.
Let's keep this a country where every man is entitled to scratch his own itch.
My country, right or wrong.
Now is the time for all good men to come to the aid of their country.
The man without a country is an exile from life and hope.
You can get the man out of the country, but you can't get the country out of the  man.
A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple.
Every couple is not a pair.
Most men and women are merely one couple more.
The higher the mountain, the cooler the breeze; the younger the couple, the  tighter they squeeze.
A great part of courage is the courage of having done the thing before.
A man of courage is never in need of weapons.
Against fortune, oppose courage; against passion, reason.
Courage comes through suffering.
Courage conquers all things; it even gives strength to the body.
Courage is a virtue the young cannot spare; to lose it is to grow old before the  time.
Courage is always safer than cowardice.
Courage is fear that has said its prayers.
Courage without conduct is like a ship without ballast.
Fearless courage is the foundation of victory.
Few persons have courage enough to appear as good as they really are.
Few there are who have courage enough to own their faults or resolution  enough to amend them.
Good courage breaks bad luck.
Have the courage not to adopt another's courage.
He who loses his wealth loses much; he who loses even one friend loses more;  but he that loses his courage loses all.
It requires more courage not to fight than to fight.
Keep your courage up and it will keep you up.
One man with courage makes a majority.
The courage of the tiger is one, and of the horse, another.
Young courage and old caution are a strong pair.
A courageous foe is better than a cowardly friend.
It is easier to act courageous than to be courageous.
One courageous thought will put to flight a host of troubles.
The world belongs to the courageous.
Steer a middle course.
He that would rise at court must begin creeping.
Always to court and never to wed is the happiest life that ever was led.
Be courteous with all but intimate with few, and let those be well tried before  you give them your confidence.
He who is courteous to all is not courteous at all.
A little courtesy will go a long way.
Courtesy begins in the home.
Courtesy costs nothing.
Courtesy is a business asset--a gain and never a loss.
Courtesy is contagious.
Courtesy is cumbersome to them that know it not.
Courtesy is appropriate for gentlemen and necessary for thieves.
Courtesy is like oil on troubled waters.
Courtesy is one habit that never goes out of style.
Courtesy is one of the best peacemakers.
Courtesy is the password to safety.
Courtesy on one side only never lasts long.
Courtesy opens many doors.
Courtesy pays.
Courtesy pays compound interest.
He who sows courtesy reaps friendship.
Life is not so short but that there is always time for courtesy.
The fox is all courtesy and all craft.
The small courtesies sweeten life, the greater ennoble it.
There is nothing that costs so little nor goes so far as courtesy.
Too much courtesy, too much craft.
A cat's courting is noisy.
Hell and the courtroom are always open.
A courtship is a man's pursuit of a woman until she catches him.
Call me cousin, but cozen me not.
That which covers you discovers you.
There is nothing covered that shall not be revealed, nor hidden that shall not be  known.
Covet not that which belongs to others.
Covet nothing overmuch.
A covetous man does nothing that he should till he dies.
The covetous are poor givers.
The covetous man is his own tormentor.
The world is too small for the covetous.
Covetousness is harder to cure than cancer.
Poverty wants many things, but covetousness all.
A bawling cow soon forgets her own calf.
A cow is a very good animal in the field, but we turn her out of a garden.
A cow needs her tail more than once in fly time.
A cursed cow has short horns.
A promised cow doesn't fatten.
An old cow needs her tail more than once.
Cows can't catch no rabbits.
Cows prefer the grass on the other side of the fence.
Don't swallow the cow and worry with the tail.
Faraway cows have long horns.
Holstein cows go round the world.
If you can't be the bell cow, fall in behind.
If you love de cow, you must love de calf.
It isn't the cow that lows the most that will milk the most.
Let him that owns the cow take her by the tail.
Lick by lick the cow ate the grindstone.
Many a good cow has a bad calf.
Night brings the cows home.
Salt the cow to get the calf.
The cow gives a good pail of milk and then kicks it over.
The cow has forgotten she was once a calf.
The cow knows not the value of her tail till she has lost it.
The cow must graze where she is tied.
The cross cow holds up her milk.
The leanest cow has the loudest low.
The more cows, the less milk.
The world is your cow, but you have to do the milking.
'Tis a lean cow that gives milk.
When the cow is stolen, they lock the barn.
Why buy the cow when you can get the milk free? Vars.
Women, cows, and hens should not run.
You cannot sell the cow and have the milk.
A coward is much more exposed to quarrels than a man of spirit.
A live coward is better than a dead hero.
Any coward can fight a battle when he is sure of winning.
Better be a coward than foolhardy.
Better be called a coward than a corpse.
Cowards call themselves cautious and misers thrifty.
Even the devil hates a coward.
Every man that is capable of doing a secret injury is a coward.
None but cowards lie.
One coward makes ten.
The coward dies many times.
The coward shoots with shut eyes.
The gods hate a coward but love a brave soul.
The Lord hates a coward.
There is no arguing a coward into courage.
Bootless speed when cowardice pursues and valor flies.
Cowardice is infectious.
A cowardly heart makes swiftrunnin' feet.
A cowardly man don't tote no broke bones.
A howlin' coyote ain't stealin' no chickens.
Even a coyote will fight when you have him cornered.
He who goes with crabs learns to walk backwards.
The older the crab, the tougher his claws.
Crab apples make good jelly, too.
It's a mighty dry year when the crabgrass fails.
Plant the crab tree where you will, it never will bear pippins.
A cracked plate always lasts longer than a new one.
As the crackling of thorns under a pot, so the laughter of a fool.
Pretty in the cradle, homely at the table.
The cradle empty blesses us more than the cradle full.
What is learned in the cradle lasts to the grave.
Of all crafts, to be an honest man is the master craft.
Think no shame of your craft.
It takes a crank to start the wheel.
Shameless craving must have shameless refusing.
One must crawl before he walks.
A crazy man thinks everyone crazy but himself.
Cream always comes to the top.
Don't expect to enjoy the cream of life if you keep your milk of human kindness  bottled up.
It is not well for a man to pray cream and live skim milk.
Put cream and sugar on a fly and it tastes very much like a black raspberry.
You can whip our cream, but you can't beat our milk.
If you would create something, you must be something.
Remember your creator in the days of your youth.
A man who gives credit loses friends, money, and customers.
Credit is better than ready money.
Credit is suspicion asleep.
Credit makes enemies.
Do not take credit that is due to others.
Give credit to whom credit is due.
He who drinks on credit gets double drunk.
It's amazing how much good you can do if you don't care who gets the credit.
Lost credit is like a broken mirror.
No man's credit is as good as his money.
Shake not the credit of others in endeavoring to establish your own.
The other face of credit is debt.
Your credit is worth more than your capital.
Creditors have better memories than debtors.
The creditors are a superstitious sect, great observers of set days and times.
Credulity is not a crime.
Credulous men are the prey of crafty ones.
Creeds for the credulous.
Creep and creep beats hop and sleep.
You must creep before you can crawl.
There's always three crews on a job: one coming, one working, and one leaving.
Crime doesn't pay.
Crime is the root of all evil.
Crime must be concealed by crime.
Crimes, like virtues, have their own rewards.
From one crime learn the nature of all.
He acts the third crime that defends the first.
He that carries a small crime easily, will carry it on when it comes to be an ox.
If you commit a crime in the mind, you may transmit it into action.
If you share your friend's crime, you make it your own.
It is unlawful to overcome crime by crime.
Large habits become small crimes.
No crime is founded upon reason.
Petty crimes are punished; great ones are rewarded.
The greater the man, the greater the crime.
The weed of crime bears bitter fruit.
What greater crime than loss of time? Rec.
When you have committed a crime, the whole world is a looking glass.
Whenever a man commits a crime, God finds a witness.
Mercy to the criminal may be cruelty to the people.
Once a criminal always a criminal.
Associate with cripples and you learn to limp.
It's ill halting before a cripple.
Make each day a critic on the last.
Man's most severe critic is himself.
No critic has ever settled anything.
The public is the only critic whose opinion is worth anything at all.
There's no statue built for critics.
It's much easier to be critical than correct.
Against criticism a man can neither protest nor defend; he must act in spite of it.
Criticism is something you can avoid by saying nothing, doing nothing, and  being nothing.
Criticism should rectify errors or improve the judgment.
The best place for criticism is in front of your mirror.
The most destructive criticism is indifference.
You do not get a man's most effective criticism until you provoke him.
It ill behooves the best of us to criticize the rest of us.
Unless you can do better, don't criticize.
A crook thinks every man is a crook.
Give a crook enough rope and he'll hang himself.
It is not easy to straighten in the oak the crook that grew in the sapling.
It takes a crook to catch a crook.
No crook finds a jail nice enough to suit him.
Once a crook, always a crook.
A crooked stick will cast a crooked shadow.
A man with a crooked career never ends well.
Crooked furrows grow straight grain.
He that scoffs at the crooked had need go very upright himself.
Don't reap your crop before you have planted it.
When the crops are poorest, the crows are the peskiest.
After crosses and losses, men grow humbler and wiser.
Crosses are the ladders to heaven.
No cross, no crown.
To everyone his own cross is heaviest.
When we suffer a great loss, we must bear our cross.
Where the cross is, there is light.
A crow does not pull out the eye of another crow.
A crow in a cage won't talk like a parrot.
A crow is no whiter for being washed.
A dish of crow won't gag you if you've got a strong stomach.
Crow an' corn can't grow in de same fiel'.
Crow's feet are always on the ground.
Crows are black the world over.
Crows weep for the dead lamb and then devour him.
Each old crow thinks her young are the blackest.
From a crow's beak comes a crow's voice.
Don't crow unless you've something to crow about.
Never crow till you're out of the woods.
A crowd is not company.
The man who follows the crowd often follows his doom.
When three is a crowd, adding one will often thin it out.
A crown is no cure for a headache.
Uneasy is the head that wears the crown.
Crowning a clown won't make him a king.
Cruelty to a female is the crime of a monster.
It takes dough to have crust.
It's a poor crust that can't grease its own plate.
De one dat drap de crutch de bes gits de mos' biscuits.
Great cry but little wool.
Don't cry "holloa" till you're out of the wood.
Don't cry over spilt milk.
Don't cry till you are hurt.
He who cries in bed will soon be dead.
Those who cry the hardest are not always the most hurt.
You must never cry so hard about your hard luck that you can't hear opportunity  knocking.
We are born crying, live complaining, and die disappointed.
You can't see the sun when you're crying.
The cuckold is the last that knows of it.
The cuckoo of summer is the scald crow of winter.
Culture is one thing, and varnish is another.
Cunning is more than strength.
Cunning is the ape of wisdom.
Cunning is the dwarf of wisdom.
Cunning often outwits itself.
The greatest cunning is to have none at all.
Too much cunning overreaches itself.
A cunning man is overmatched by a cunning man and a half.
A cunning man overreaches no one so much as himself.
One man may be more cunning than another but not more cunning than  everybody else.
The cunning man steals a horse; the wise man lets him alone.
A full cup must be carried steadily.
A rose leaf on the "beaker's brim" causes the overflow of the cup.
The last drop wobbles; the cup flows over.
The optimist's cup is half full; the pessimist's cup is half empty.
When the cup of happiness overflows, disaster follows.
While drinking from one cup, look not into another.
You can't escape the hemlock cup.
Cupid is a blind gunner.
A mischievous cur must be tied short.
A pound of cure will not pay an ounce of debt.
As a cure for worry, work is better than whiskey.
Desperate cures to desperate ills apply.
Easy to get a thousand prescriptions, hard to obtain a cure.
It is part of the cure to wish to be cured.
The best cure for drunkenness is, while sober, to see a drunken man.
The cure may be worse than the disease.
There is no cure for the firewater's burn.
There is no greater cure for misery than hard work.
What can't be cured must be endured.
Curiosity has a spiteful way of turning back on the curious.
Curiosity killed the cat.
Foolish curiosity and vanity often lead to misfortune.
A currycomb is equal to half feed.
 Curses, like chickens, come home to roost.
Curses never put men in hearses, but lying tongues have dug many graves.
The curse sticks to the tongue of the curser.
If you curse others, you will be cursed.
The man who curses prays to the devil.
Them that never had a cushion never need one.
As times are, so are the customs.
Bad customs are better broke than kept up.
Choose that which is best and custom will make it most agreeable.
Compliance with bad customs argues cowardice and ends in loss of character.
Consent to common custom, but not to common folly.
Custom is a master that makes a slave of reason.
Custom is a second nature.
Custom is a tyrant.
Custom is mummified by habit and glorified by law.
Custom is the great guide.
Custom is the reason of fools.
Custom surpasses nature.
Customs are more honored in the breach than the observance.
Customs are stronger than laws.
Ill customs grow apace.
It's better to handle a tough customer with kid gloves.
No matter how shoddy the goods, you can always find a customer.
The customer is always right.
A gaping cut always leaves a scar.
A short cut is often the wrong cut.
Raw dabs make fat lads.
Who dainties love, shall beggars prove.
You don't have to buy a dairy just because you want a glass of milk.
Daisies won't tell.
Where the dam is lowest the water first flows over.
What you lose in the dance, you make up in the turn about.
He dances well to whom fortune pipes.
If you don't know how to dance, you say that the drum is bad.
If you want to dance, you must pay the fiddler.
When you go to dance, take heed whom you take by the hand.
You can't dance at two weddings with one pair of feet.
A common danger causes common action.
A danger foreseen is half avoided.
After the danger everyone is wise.
Better face danger than be always in fear.
Danger begets caution.
Danger is next neighbor to security.
Danger past, God is forgotten.
Dangers are conquered by dangers.
He that loves danger shall perish therein.
Sweet is danger.
The more danger, the more honor.
There is danger in the absence of fear.
When danger is near, keep out of the way.
It's dangerous to dig pits for other folks; you'll fall in yourself.
Great men live dangerously; small men don't take chances.
A man that will take a dare will take a penny from a dead man's eye.
Anybody that would take a dare would kill a sheep and eat the hair.
Nothing dared, nothing gained.
Who dares wins.
Darer goes first.
What goes on in the dark must come out in the light.
It is always dark just under a lamp.
It is always darkest before dawn.
All the darkness in the world cannot put out a single candle.
 Darkness and light cannot dwell together.
 Darkness has no shame.
Darkness is the owl's desire.
Better an old man's darling than a young man's slave.
A diamond daughter turns to glass as a wife.
An undutiful daughter will prove an unmanageable wife.
 Daughters are brittle ware.
 Deacons' daughters and ministers' sons are the biggest devils that ever run.
First a daughter, then a son, and the family's well begun.
He that would the daughter win would with the mother begin.
It is harder to marry a daughter well then to bring her up well.
The daughter of a spry old woman makes a poor housekeeper.
A bad daughter-in-law is worse than a thousand devils.
Daughters-in-law become mothers-in-law.
Get up with the dawn and you can sleep until noon.
A bad day never has a good night.
A day lost is never found.
A day off is usually followed by an off day.
A day to come seems longer than a year that is gone.
A wise man's day is worth a fool's life.
Another day, another dollar.
As the day lengthens, the cold strengthens.
Count each day that comes by gift of chance so much to the good.
Dark days and storms heighten the appreciation of sunshine.
Dere's come a day when you can't lay up a cent.
Do not wait for a rainy day to fix your roof.
Drunken days have their tomorrow.
Each day compel yourself to do something you would rather not do.
Every day has its night, every weal its woe.
Go day, come day, God send Sunday.
It's a long day that has no ending.
Keep the weekdays honest and it will be easy to keep the Sabbath holy.
Live each day as though it were the last.
Live only for this day and you ruin tomorrow.
Many individuals shorten their days by lengthening their nights.
May the best day we have seen be the worst we have to come.
No day is over until the sun has set.
No day passes without some grief.
No day without a deed to crown it.
Nothing is harder to endure than a succession of good days.
On a hot day muffle yourself to move.
Praise a fine day at night.
Pray each day that you might live; live each day that you pray.
Save your pennies for a rainy day.
Some days are darker than others.
Some days it's not even worth getting up.
Some days you can't make a dollar.
Take each day as it comes.
The best days are the first to flee.
The better the day, the better the deed.
The day has but one eye; the night has a thousand.
The day never becomes brighter by finding fault with the sun.
The day that makes us happy makes us wise.
The good old days were once the present, too.
The longest day will come to an end.
The most utterly lost of all days is that on which you have not laughed.
The next day is never so good as the day before.
There are more days than sausage.
Two good days for a man in this life: when he weds, and when he buries his  wife.
What a day may bring a day may take away.
When a man prays one day and steals six, the great spirit thunders and the evil  one laughs.
Who goes for a day into the forest should take bread for a week.
You can tell the day by the morning.
The morning daylight appears plainer when you put out your candle.
Bury your own dead.
It's safer to commend the dead than the living.
Let the dead bury the dead.
Speak well of the dead.
The dead are always wrong.
The dead are soon forgotten.
A dead man feels no cold.
A dead person is wept for for seven days; a fool, all his life.
Better be dead than out of fashion.
Dead men don't walk again.
Dead men never bite.
Dead men tell no tales.
It will all be the same after you are dead a hundred years.
Near dead never filled the kirkyard.
No man is dead till he's dead.
When we're dead, we're dead for a long time.
None so deaf as he who won't hear.
Deal small and serve all.
Plain dealing is dead, and died without issue.
After death, the doctor.
Better death than dishonor.
Death and life are in the power of the tongue.
Death cannot kill what never dies.
Death defies the doctor or employs him to do its job.
Death devours lambs as well as sheep.
Death fiddles and we dance.
Death is a black camel which kneels at every man's gate.
Death is a great leveler.
Death is but death, and all in time shall die.
Death is deaf and will hear no denial.
Death is no respecter of persons.
Death is not chosen.
Death is permanent.
Death is sometimes a gift.
Death keeps no calendar.
Death keeps no company.
Death observes no ceremony.
Death pays all debts.
Death rides with the drinking driver.
Death to the wolf is life to the lamb.
Death waits for no one.
Death's a great disguise.
If you fear death, you're already dead.
Men fear death as children do going in the dark.
Nothing is certain except death and taxes.
Old men go to death, but death comes to young men.
One man's death is another man's bread.
The death of one dog is the life of another.
There is no death without a sin.
There is no way of knowing when death will come; it just does.
When death knocks at your door, you must answer.
A man in debt is caught in a net.
A national debt, if it is not excessive, will be to us a national blessing.
A small debt makes a debtor, a heavy one an enemy.
Debt is a hard taskmaster.
Debt is a rope to your feet.
Debt is the worst poverty.
He who pays his debts enriches himself.
Keep out of debt and you will keep out of trouble.
Lying rides upon debt's back.
Out of debt is riches enough.
Out of debt, out of danger.
Pay your debts or lose your friends.
Rather than run into debt, wear your old coat.
The man in debt is a jump ahead of the sheriff.
Without debt, without care.
You can run into debt, but you have to crawl out.
Decay belongs to every thief.
Deceit is a lie which wears a smile.
Deceit is a spider's web that traps the deceiver.
Deceive not yourselves.
He is not deceived who is knowingly deceived.
If the same man deceives us twice, we deserve ruin.
It is an ill thing to be deceived, but worse to deceive.
Men are never so easily deceived as when they are plotting to deceive others.
Never deceive, and then you may boldly withstand.
None are deceived but they that confide.
Take heed that no man deceive you.
The people are deceived by names, but not by things.
Those who try to deceive may expect to be paid in their own coin.
There is no way of insuring deception against detection.
We cannot decide what may happen to us, but we can decide what happens in  us.
A quick decision may speed you into disaster.
A bad deed never dies.
A good deed bears a blessing for its fruit.
A good deed comes back a thousand fold.
A good deed is never forgotten.
A good deed may spring from a bad source.
Bad deeds follow you; the good ones flee.
Deed done is well begun.
Deeds are fruits; words are but leaves.
Deeds are love, not fine words.
Deeds are masculine; words are feminine.
Deeds, not words.
Deeds speak louder than words.
Do a good deed every day.
Evil deeds do not prosper.
Good deeds are better than creeds.
Good deeds are easily forgotten, bad deeds never.
Great deeds are reserved for great souls.
It is one thing to plan a deed and another to carry it out.
Judge a man by his deeds, not by his words.
Longer than deeds lives the word.
One good deed deserves another.
Our greatest deeds we do unknowingly.
The deed will praise itself.
We live in deeds, not years.
Wicked deeds will not stay hid.
Deep calls unto deep.
Defeat is a tonic to a brave man.
Defeat isn't bitter if you don't swallow it.
It is defeat that turns bones to flint; it is defeat that turns gristle to muscle; it is  defeat that makes men invincible.
There is no defeat except from within.
Do not publish people's defects.
Great defects belong only to great men.
If the defendant is silent the jury will think him guilty.
The best defense is a good offense.
Millions for defense but not a cent for tribute.
The deities of one age are the bywords of the next.
All delays are dangerous in war.
Delay breeds loss.
Delay is dangerous.
Delay of justice is the stepmother of misfortune.
Delays are dangerous, but they make things sure.
Delays are often more injurious than direct injustice.
Delays have dangerous ends.
Delays increase desires and sometimes extinguish them.
To delay may mean to forget.
You may delay, but time will not.
Deliberate long on that which you can do but once.
Deliberate slowly; execute promptly.
Deliberating is not delaying.
Never find your delight in another's misfortune.
The delights of the flesh are the despair of the soul.
There is delight in danger and danger in delight.
There is no leaping from Delilah's lap into Abraham's bosom.
Delivery makes the deed valid.
After us the deluge.
Inordinate demands should meet with bold denials.
Where the demand is a jest, the fittest answer is a scoff.
He who demands does not command.
Democracy is better than tyranny.
Democracy means not lack of control but self-control.
The price of democracy is mediocracy [sic].
The Democratic party is like a man riding backward in a carriage: it never sees  a thing until it has gone by.
Demonstration is the best mode of instruction.
Denominations fight while the devil laughs.
You can't blame a dentist for looking down at the mouth.
Deny self for self's sake.
He who denies all confesses all.
The sooner the departure, the quicker the return.
The greatest ability is dependability.
The bitter bread of dependence is hard to chew.
The dependent man must dine late and eat the leftovers.
Never venture out of your depth till you can swim.
You can't tell the depth of the well by the length of the handle on the pump.
You will never know the depth of a man until he opens his mouth.
Derbyshire-born and Derbyshire-bred, strong in the arm and thick in the head.
It is easier to descend than ascend.
He who boasts of his descent is like a potato: the best part is underground.
The descent to hell is easy.
Desertion is the better part of valor.
First deserve and then desire.
All earnest desires are prayers.
Desires are nourished by delays.
He who lives in either desire or fear can never enjoy his possessions.
It is easier to suppress the just desire than to satisfy all that follows it.
Desire nothing that would bring disgrace.
Despair blunts the edge of industry.
Despair is the conclusion of fools.
It is easy to despise what you cannot get.
Men despise what they do not understand.
There are many who prefer to despise and belittle that which is beyond their  reach.
That which is despised is often the most useful.
He who uses his tongue will reach his destination.
A man's destiny is always dashed.
Destiny leads the willing but drags the unwilling.
He whose destiny is to be hanged will never be drowned.
There is a destiny that makes us brothers.
You can't fight destiny; submit to it.
Your whole destiny is involved in the attitude you take toward your sin.
Details are not ends in themselves.
A determined fellow can do more with a rusty monkey wrench than a lot of  people can with a machine shop.
Detraction is a weed that only grows on dunghills.
As well to eat the devil as drink his broth.
Even the devil hates a coward.
Even the devil will swear on a stack of Bibles.
Fight the devil with his own tools, or fight the devil with fire.
Give the devil an inch and he will take an ell.
Give the devil his dues.
Give the devil rope enough and he'll hang himself.
He must needs go whom the devil drives.
He that takes the devil into his boat must carry him over the sound.
It always makes the devil laugh to see the biter bitten.
It's hard to keep out the devil, but it is worse to drive him out.
Never say adieu to the devil until you have met him.
Shame the devil and repent of your wickedness.
Talk about the devil and his imps will appear.
The devil always tends to his own business.
The devil can cite scripture for his purpose.
The devil could not be everywhere so he made children.
The devil goes shares in gaming.
The devil hawks his wares within the house of God.
The devil I know is better than the devil I don't know.
The devil is always at the elbow of an idle man.
The devil is master of all the arts.
The devil is not always at one door.
The devil is not as black as he is painted.
The devil is not idle.
The devil never misses the bus.
The devil never sleeps.
The devil never tempts those whom he finds suitably employed.
The devil places a pillow for a drunken man to fall on.
The devil protects his own.
The devil some mischief finds for idle hands to do.
The devil takes only what we give to him.
The devil takes the hindmost.
The devils in the world shout loud and strong, but the angels outvote them.
The reason the devil buys so many of us so cheaply is that he offers cash.
There's more than one way to beat the devil around the bush.
What's good for the devil applies to his imp.
When fortune knocks at your door, the devil accompanies it.
When the devil comes, it is too late to pray.
When the devil hungers, he will eat scraps.
When the devil was sick, a monk was he; when the devil was well, the devil of  a monk was he.
Where the devil can't go, he sends his grandmother.
Where there's money you'll find the devil.
Write on the devil's horns "good angel," and many will believe it.
You can kill the devil by kindness.
Dexterity comes by experience.
A diamond on a dunghill is a precious diamond still.
A fine diamond may be ill set.
Better a diamond with a flaw than a pebble.
Diamond cuts diamond.
Diamonds come in small packages.
The best throw upon the dice is to throw them away.
The dictionary is the only place where success comes before work.
The die is cast.
A man can only die once.
A man's not ready to die until he's fit to live.
All men must die.
Better die than turn your back on reason.
Each man dies as he must.
He that dies pays all debts.
It is better to die kicking than to be kicked dying.
It is better to die young at home than to die old in a hospital.
It is not difficult to die well, but it is difficult to live well.
It matters not how a man dies but how he lives.
Men don't die who were born to be hanged.
Never say die.
Some die that others may live.
Some men die before they begin to live.
They die well that live well.
We die as we live.
We leave more to do when we die than we have done.
When you die, you can't take it with you.
You are never too young to die.
You might as well die with chills as with fever.
Diet cures more than the doctor.
Simple diet makes healthy children.
When men come face to face, their differences vanish.
By different methods different men excel.
All things are difficult before they arc easy.
The difficult is done at once; the impossible takes a little longer.
Difficulties are things that show what men are.
Difficulties relate only to necessity.
Difficulty strengthens the mind as labor does the body.
The best way out of a difficulty is through it.
Dignity does not consist in a silk dress.
Dignity does not consist in possessing honors but in deserving them.
Dignity is one thing that can't be preserved in alcohol.
Diligence brings delight.
Diligence is a fair fortune, and industry a good estate.
Diligence is the mistress of success.
Diligence is the mother of good luck.
Few things are impossible to diligence and skill.
The hand of the diligent shall bear the rule.
Dime is money, as the Dutchman says.
Don't hold the dime so near your eye that you can't see the dollar.
Take care of the dimes and the dollars will take care of themselves.
A dinner lubricates business.
After dinner sit awhile; after supper walk a mile.
Better a dinner of herbs where love is than a stalled ox and hatred therewith.
Better a good dinner than a fine coat.
Do not shout dinner till you have your knife in the loaf.
Diplomacy is the better part of valor.
Diplomacy is the art of letting someone else have your way.
Diplomacy is to do and say the nastiest thing in the nicest way.
A diplomacy is a man who always remembers a woman's birthday but never her  age.
A diplomat is a person who can tell you to go to the devil so pleasantly that you  are raring to go.
By indirection find direction out.
 It's not where we stand but in what direction we are moving.
A little dirt never hurt anyone.
Brushin' aginst dirt don't make you any cleaner.
Cast no dirt in the well that gives you water.
Dirt is cheap; it takes money to buy wool.
Dirt is only matter in the wrong place.
Dirt shows the quickest on the cleanest cotton.
Fling dirt enough and some will stick.
Sweep the dirt from in front of your own door, and don't worry about your  neighbor's.
We must all eat a peck of dirt before we die.
Who deals in dirt has foul fingers.
You can't play in the dirt without getting dirty.
Disappointment hurts more than pain.
We easily disbelieve those things which we desire not.
A man's discontent is his worst evil.
Discontent is the first step in progress.
We are never more discontented with others than when we are discontented  with ourselves.
Discouragement is the devil's most valuable tool.
The discourse of flatterers is a rope of honey.
An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of wit.
Discretion is the better part of valor.
Discussion is the anvil upon which the spark of truth is struck.
A disease known is half cured.
Cure the disease and kill the patient.
Desperate diseases must have desperate cures.
Diseases are the tax on pleasures.
Desire nothing that would bring disgrace.
Disgraces are like cherries: one draws another.
It is no disgrace to ask for an honest quarter.
It is no disgrace to fall down--the disgrace is in not getting up and going ahead.
It's no disgrace to be poor, but it may as well be.
The disgrace of the city is the fault of the citizens.
There is no disgrace in honest labor.
No one can disgrace us but ourselves.
All is lost that is poured into a cracked dish.
Empty dishes rattle loudly.
It's a poor dish wiper that can't get the dishes clean for the dishwasher.
Don't dish it out if you can't take it.
A docile disposition will with application surmount every difficulty.
A gentle disposition is like an unruffled stream.
A loving disposition is never without a ripple.
Not by years but by disposition is wisdom acquired.
To learn about one's disposition, we must cross him.
Between wrangling and disputing, truth is lost.
Disputing and borrowing cause grief and sorrowing.
There is no disputing about tastes.
Dissatisfaction is the father of ambition.
Distance is the best remedy against an evil-disposed man.
Distance lends enchantment.
The shortest distance between two points is a straight line.
Assuage distress with a smile.
Two in distress make sorrow less.
Wise distrust is the parent of security.
Better go around than fall into the ditch.
If you dig a ditch for your neighbor, you will fall into it yourself.
Divide and conquer.
A divided man makes an unhappy spirit.
The easiest way to get a divorce is to be married.
A man can do a lot of things if he has to.
All may do what has by man been done.
Do a thing and have done with it.
Do as I say, not say I do.
Do as well as you look.
Do it well or not at all.
Do or die.
Do something, even if it's wrong.
Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.
Do well, have well.
Do what you do carefully.
Do what you ought, come what may.
Don't do anything I wouldn't do.
Don't do as I do, but as I say.
Don't sit around and talk about what you are going to do--do it.
Eat it up, wear it out, make it do, or do without.
Folks who never do any more than they get paid for never get paid for any more  than they do.
He who can't do what he wants must want what he can do.
If we like to do a thing, we do it well.
If you do what you should not, you must hear what you would not.
If you don't have anything to do, don't do it here.
If you don't know what to do, don't do anything.
If you don't you do and if you do you don't, so you might as well.
If you mean well, do well.
If you want something done and done well, do it yourself.
It is not what we do but how we do it that counts.
Many a man has done well at the last hour.
Mind what you do and how you do it.
Never do anything of which you are ashamed.
Never do anything yourself you can get somebody else to do.
No one else will do it for you.
Once done well is twice done.
One can only do by doing.
Self do, self have.
What is done cannot be undone.
What's done is done.
Whatever you do, do with all your might, for things done by halves are never  done right.
Who will do, will do.
You can do anything you want to if you want to bad enough.
You can't tell what a man can do.
You don't have to do anything but live till you die.
A doctor eases your pain; God cures it.
A drunken doctor is always smart.
A good doctor treats both the patient and the disease.
A man who is his own doctor has a fool for his patient.
Always tell your doctor and your lawyer the truth.
Beware of the young doctor and the old barber.
Doctors' faults are covered with earth, and rich men's with money.
Doctors make the worst patients.
Every doctor thinks his pills the best.
Good doctors do not treat themselves.
If the doctor cures, the sun sees it; if he kills, the earth hides it.
No doctor like a true friend.
Pay the doctor; praise the Lord.
The cleverest doctor cannot save himself.
The doctor we hear about is always better than the one we know about.
The more doctors, the more diseases.
The three doctors Diet, Quiet, and Temperance are the best physicians.
Ill doers are ill thinkers.
A bad dog never sees the wolf.
A barking dog never bites.
A barking dog was never a good hunter.
A beaten dog is afraid of the stick's shadow.
A blind dog won't bark at the moon.
A dead dog never bites.
A dead dog tells no tales.
A dog, a woman, and a walnut tree: the more they're beat, the better they be.
A dog ain't healthy if he ain't got any fleas.
A dog has friends because he wags his tail instead of his tongue.
A dog in the kitchen desires no company.
A dog is loved by old and young; he wags his tail and not his tongue.
A dog is man's best friend.
A dog knows his own master.
A dog returns to where he has been fed.
 A dog smells his own tracks first.
A dog that has two homes is no good.
A dog that will fetch a bone will carry one.
A dog will bite or be bit.
A dog will down another dog.
A dog will not cry if you beat him with a bone.
A dog with a bone knows no friend.
A dog with money is addressed, "Mr.
A dog's nose and a maid's knee are always cold.
A good dog deserves a good bone.
A guilty dog always barks.
A lazy dog finds no bone.
A little dog will run a !ion out of his own yard.
A mad dog neither drinks nor smokes, but it would be rash to conclude that he  was therefore a safe and pleasant companion.
A man may cause even his own dog to bite him.
A mischievous dog must be tied short.
A scalded dog thinks cold water hot.
A sleeping dog never bites.
A snappish dog usually has torn ears.
A wagging-tailed dog never bites.
A wandering dog always returns to a warm hearth.
A wise dog knows its master.
All dogs bite the bitten dog.
An old dog bites sore.
 An old dog does not bark in vain.
An old dog does not work for nothing.
As the dogs bark, the young ones learn.
At open doors dogs come in.
Better live dog than dead lion.
Beware of a silent dog and silent water.
Can't excuse a dog after he bites.
Can't tell a dog by its collar.
De howlin' dog know w'at he sees.
Dog will not eat dog.
Dogs delight to bark and bite for God has made 'em so.
Dogs don't bite at de front gate.
Dogs don't kill sheep at home.
Don't be afraid of a dog that barks.
Don't call a dog while you're holding a stick in your hand.
Don't kick a dog when he is down.
Every dog has his day.
Every dog is a lion at home.
Every dog thinks her puppies are the cutest.
Fighting dogs never win.
For every dog there is a leash.
Get out of the way of a mad dog.
Give a dog a bad name and hang him.
Give a dog enough rope and he'll hang himself.
Give a dog your finger and he'll want your hand.
He who associates with dogs learns to pant.
He who has a mind to beat a dog will easily find a stick.
Help the lame dog over the stile.
Hungry dogs will eat dirty puddings.
If one gets over the dog, one gets over the tail.
If the dog hadn't stopped to lift his leg, he'd have caught the rabbit.
If you lie down with dogs, you'll get up with fleas.
In every country dogs bite.
Into the mouth of a bad dog often falls a good bone.
It is best to let a sleeping dog lie.
It takes a lean dog for a long race.
It's a daft dog that bites himself.
It's a poor dog that can't wag its own tail.
It's not the size of the dog in the fight, it's the size of the fight in the dog.
Life is a matter of dog eat dog.
Little dogs start the hare, but great ones catch it.
Mad dogs and Englishmen go out in the noontime sun.
Never let the same dog bite you twice.
Never trust a man a dog doesn't like.
No sense in keepin' a dog when doin' your own barkin'.
Notice a dog and he will leap on your neck.
Old brag is a good dog, but hold fast is a better one.
One dog barks at nothing; the rest bark at him.
One dog may kill another, but that doesn't stop dogfights.
One sheep-killing dog kills a good one.
Quarreling dogs come halting home.
Quarrelsome dogs get dirty coats.
Satisfy a dog with a bone and a woman with a lie.
Short-tailed dog wag his tail same as a long 'un.
Strike my dog and you strike me.
The dog always returns to his vomit.
The dog doesn't get bread every time he wags his tail.
The dog has four legs, but he does not run on four roads.
The dog in the manger won't eat the oats or let anyone else eat them.
The dog that minds not your whistle is good for nothing.
The dog that trots about finds the bone.
The dog without teeth barks the most.
The foremost dog catches the hare.
The hair of the dog is good for the bite.
The hit dog is always the one that howls.
The lean dog is all fleas.
The mad dog bites his master.
The saddest dog sometimes wags its tail.
The silent dog is first to bite.
The time to befriend a dog is when the dog is down.
There are more ways to kill a dog than by choking him to death on hot butter.
'Tis dog's delight to bark and bite, but little children never.
To a vicious dog a short chain.
To kill an old dog you must hide your stick.
Two dogs fight over a bone while the third always runs away with the bone.
Two dogs over one bone seldom agree.
Wash a dog, comb a dog: still a dog.
When a dog bites a man, that is not news; but when a man bites a dog, that is  news.
When a dog is drowning, everyone offers him drink.
Where there's a dog, there's fleas.
Who yaps like a dog will be beaten like a dog.
You can call a dog without kicking him.
You can never tell a dog by his bark.
You can tell a dog by his collar.
You can't keep a good dog down.
You can't teach an old dog new tricks.
You have to be smarter than the dog to teach him tricks.
A dogfight at home is more interesting than a civil war in Asia.
All's fair in a dogfight.
The doghouse is no place to keep a sausage.
Anything worth doing is worth doing well.
Doing is better than saying.
Doing nothing is doing ill.
Doing things by halves is worthless, for it may be the other half that counts.
Life on the dole brings sadness to the soul.
A bad dollar always comes back.
A dollar a day keeps the beggar away.
A dollar in the bank is worth two in the hand.
A dollar saved is a dollar earned.
Don't waste ten dollars looking for a dime.
If you keep a dollar in your pocket, you'll never go broke.
Lend a dollar, lose a friend.
One dollar in your hand beats the promise of two in somebody else's.
Save a dollar and keep your worries away.
You can't get dollars by pinching nickels.
Your best friend is your dollar.
A donkey is but a donkey though laden with gold.
A donkey looks beautiful to a donkey.
A donkey prefers thistles because he is an ass.
A donkey that carries the load is more decent than a lap dog that lives in idle  luxury.
Better a donkey that carries me than a horse that throws me.
Don't try to back a donkey through.
A creaking door never falls from its hinges.
A door must be open or shut.
A sealed door invites a thief.
An open door may tempt a saint.
Beware of a door that has many keys.
Don't knock at a dead man's door and expect an answer.
Doors have eyes and walls have ears.
Every door may be shut but death's door.
He that would make a door of gold must drive in a nail every day.
He who closes his door to the poor will find the gates of heaven closed.
Just pushing ahead will open the door to success much quicker than pulling.
Lock your door and keep your neighbors honest.
Men shut their doors against the setting sun.
No need to lock your door till your neighbor pulls his shades down.
Sweep in front of your own door first.
The back door robs the house.
The door of the carpenter is loose.
The door to success is labeled "push.
The door to the room of success always swings off the hinges of opposition.
There's no use in closing the barn door after the horse is stolen.
When one door closes, another one opens.
When the door is shut, the work improves.
When you open a door, you do not know how many rooms lie beyond.
Wide is the door of the little cottage.
if you make yourself a doormat, you will be stepped on.
Keep your own doorsteps clean.
The doorstep of a great house is slippery.
A dose is not worse than a bad cold.
A little doubt saves many a mistake.
Doubt comes in at the window when inquiry is denied at the door.
Doubt grows up with knowledge.
Doubts never yet helped a man to live, to grow, or to build.
Our doubts are traitors.
When doubt comes in, love goes out.
When doubt is doubted, death is clouted.
When in doubt, ask.
When in doubt, hesitate.
When in doubt, leave it out.
When in doubt, punt.
When in doubt, salute.
When in doubt, tell the truth.
Doubt whom you will, but never doubt yourself.
He who doubts nothing knows nothing.
Who never doubted never half believed.
If doubtful, do.
It takes dough to have crust.
 A man may be down, but he is never out.
Don't be down on something before you are up on it.
He that is down need fear no fall.
 It is easier to pull down than to build up.
When a man is down, don't kick him lower.
When a man is down, everyone runs over him.
You can't hold another fellow down in the ditch unless you stay down there  with him.
You can't keep a good man down.
When a man is going downhill, everyone gives him a push.
Anyone can go downstream, but it takes a real man to go upstream.
 A man's dreams are his own.
Dreams are what you hope for; reality is what you plan for.
Dreams are wishes your heart makes.
Dreams give wings to fools.
Dreams go by contraries.
Dreams retain the infirmities of our character.
In dreams and in love, nothing is impossible.
Love's dreams prove seldom true.
Only in dreams does happiness of the earth dwell.
You can make your dreams come true if you wake up and work.
People who dream all night don't work all day.
The more a man dreams, the less he believes.
To dream is to see beyond.
Keep a dress seven years and it will come back into style.
Love of dress is sure the very curse.
The best-dressed woman usually arrives last with the least.
Driftwood never goes upstream.
A man takes a drink and then the drink takes the man.
Drink does not drown care, but waters it and makes it grow faster.
Drink is the curse of the working class.
Of all the meat in the world, drink goes down the best.
One drink is good, two is too much, and three is not enough.
One drink leads to another.
One man's drink is another man's poison.
The last drink is always the best.
The one who takes a drink now and then is always drunk.
The smaller the drink, the clearer the head, the cooler the blood.
When the drink is in the many, the wisdom is in the Can.
You can't take a second drink unless you have taken a first.
Drink like hell and be happy.
Drink little that you may drink long.
He who drinks and walks away lives to drink another day.
He who drinks fast pays slow.
It is all right to drink like a fish if you drink what a fish drinks.
Nobody should drink but those that can drink.
The more you drink, the more you want.
Thousands drink themselves to death before one dies of thirst.
Who has drunk will drink.
There are more old drinkers than old doctors.
Drinking and thinking don't mix.
Constant dripping wears away a stone.
Drive safe today and drive tomorrow.
If you drive, don't drink; if you drink, don't drive.
You can drive sixty miles a minute, but there ain't no future in it.
The best drivers have wrecks.
A drop in the bucket each day will fill your life with happiness some day.
A little drop may end in a great fall.
Drop by drop and the pitcher is full.
Little drops produce a shower.
Many drops of water make an ocean.
Many drops of water will sink a ship.
One drop of liquor makes two drips.
The falling drops at last will wear the stone.
The last drop makes the cup turn over.
A continual dropping on a very rainy day and a contentious woman are alike.
Constant dropping wears away the stone.
A three years' drought will not starve a cook.
Don't drown yourself to save a drowning man.
A drowning man will catch at a straw.
Drowsiness shall clothe a man with rags.
The drug always does good, if not to the patient at least to the druggist.
A hollow drum makes the most noise.
Where drums beat, laws are silent.
A drunk man and a sleepwalker never get hurt when they fall.
A drunk man will sober up, but a damn fool never.
Ever drunk, ever dry.
The drunk man is the rich man.
A drunkard puts ten times more in his jug than he gets out of it.
A young drunkard, an old pauper.
Once a drunkard, always a drunkard.
The drunkard's cure is drink again.
You can always tell a drunkard by his actions.
A drunken man will get sober, but a fool will never get wise.
Drunken folks seldom take harm.
You can't kill a drunken man.
Don't add drunkenness to thirst.
Drunkenness is an egg from which all vices are hatched.
Drunkenness is voluntary madness.
If you want to know what a ducat is worth, borrow one.
A duck never flies so high but that it has to come down for water.
A duck won't always paddle in the same gutter.
Every duck thinks it is a swan.
Every mother's duck is a swan.
It's better to be a big duck in a little puddle than to be a little duck in a big  puddle.
Nothing ruins a duck but his bill.
Roasted ducks don't fly into your mouth.
A ten-dollar dude may have a twodollar salary.
 Some pay their dues when due, some others when overdue, and some never do.
 Who loses his due gets no thanks.
It is the dull man who is always sure and the sure man who is always dull.
Dumb folks get no lands.
Nothing is dumber than a goose.
There's none so dumb as those who will not learn.
The dunce wonders; the wise man asks.
The globe-trotting dunce is more stupid than the dunce who stays at home.
One begins by being a dupe; one ends by being a rascal.
Durability is better than show.
Nothing is more durable than a hog's snout.
A speck of dust may clog the works of a watch.
Every pint of March dust brings a peck of September corn and a pound of 'tober  cotton.
He that blows dust fills his own eyes.
There is no dust so blinding as gold dust.
Judge a Dutchman by what he means, not by what he says.
A duty should be injurious to no one.
A neglected duty returns tomorrow with seven others at its back.
Do your duty and be afraid of none.
Duties are ours; events are God's.
Duty before pleasure.
Duty done is the soul's fireside.
He who sidesteps duty avoids a gain.
Higher duties mean greater responsibilities.
It is a man's duty to go as far as he can on the right road.
Only aim to do your duty, and mankind will give you credit where you fail.
There is not a moment without some duty.
What ain't your duty ain't your business.
It is better to dwell in the comer of a housetop than with a brawling woman in a  wide house.
Dying is as natural as living.
Dying once, even for one's country, is once too often.
The dying never weep.
Dying men speak true.
Dynamite comes in small packages.
To each his own.
Attempt not to fly like an eagle with the wings of a wren.
Eagles don't catch flies.
Eagles fly alone, but sheep flock together.
Eagles fly high.
The old age of an eagle is as good as the youth of a sparrow.
When the eagle is dead, the crows pick out his eyes.
Where the carrion is, there the eagles gather.
A pair of good ears will drain dry a hundred tongues.
An open ear and a closed mouth is the best known substitution for wisdom.
Give every man your ear but few your voice.
Have a wide ear and a short tongue.
He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
Keep your ears open: even a rattlesnake will warn before he bites.
No ear is deaf to the song that gold sings.
No ear is so deaf as one which wishes not to hear.
One can't hear one's own ears.
What the ear does not hear disturbs not the mind.
You'll hear a lot of things before your ears drop off.
You can't have the ear unless you plant the corn.
Because you rise earlier does not mean it will be daylight.
Early to rise has virtues three: 'tis healthy, wealthy, and Godly.
Better early than late, but better never late.
He who gets up early has gold in his mouth.
He who rises early makes progress in his work.
Rise early, live soberly, and apply yourself with industry.
They that get the name of rising early may lie in bed all day.
To get up early three mornings is equal to one day of time.
Earth has no sorrow that heaven cannot heal.
No one is entitled to more than six feet of earth.
Six feet of earth makes all men equal.
The earth provides all things and receives all again.
Think of ease but work on.
When you are not at ease with others, others are not at ease with you.
Would you live with ease, do what you ought and not what you please.
East is east, and west is west, and never the twain shall meet.
Too far east is west.
A thing easy to get is easy to lose.
Easy got, easy gain: short joy, long pain.
Easy is as easy does.
Nothing is easy to the unwilling.
Some things seem easy at first, but they are easier said than done.
Take-it-easy and live-long are brothers.
Easy come, easy go.
Easy does it.
A man eats so he works.
Dem what eats kin say grace.
Don't eat before you set the table.
Eat at pleasure; drink by measure.
Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we may die.
Eat, for someday you will be eaten.
Eat it up, wear it out, make it do, or do without.
Eat to live; do not live to eat.
Eat to please yourself, but dress to please others.
Eat well, drink well, and do your duty well.
Eat when you are hungry; drink when you are dry.
He that eats till he is sick must fast till he is well.
He who eats the fastest eats the mostest.
Tell me what you eat and I will tell you what you are.
The more you eat, the more you want.
Whoever eats fine at sight eats with greed out of sight.
You are what you eat.
A good eater is a happy man.
A swift eater, a swift worker.
Eating and scratching, it's all in the beginning.
If it were not for eating, the back might wear gold.
Eavesdroppers never hear any good of themselves.
The lowest ebb is the turn of the tide.
What the ebb takes out, the flood brings in.
There are many echoes in the world, but few voices.
He who does not economize must agonize.
Don't start economizing when you are down to your last dollar.
Economy is a wise expenditure of money, not stinginess.
Economy is itself a great income.
Economy is the easy chair of old age.
Economy is the road to wealth.
If you can't make every edge cut, you can sure make it bruise.
The finest edge is made with the blunt whetstone.
The narrower the edge, the deeper the cut.
You can't cut with too keen an edge.
It is one thing to get educated and another thing to keep educated.
A little education is a dangerous thing.
Education begins a gentleman; conversation completes him.
Education doesn't come by bumping your head against the school house.
Education is a gift that none can take away.
Education is an investment never to be lost nor removed.
Education is the best provision for old age.
Education makes the man.
Never let your education interfere with your intelligence.
Silver and gold may tarnish away, but a good education will never decay.
There is no education like adversity.
An eel held by the tail is not yet caught.
Let every man skin his own eel.
One cannot hunt eels and hares at the same time.
We know the effects of many things but the causes of few.
Earnest effort leads to success.
It takes little effort to watch a man carry a load.
To give lip service to someone requires very little effort.
What you get without effort is worth what it costs.
A broken egg cannot be put back together Rec.
A rotten egg spoils the pudding.
A stingy man gives an egg to get a chicken.
An egg today is worth a hen tomorrow.
Better an egg in peace than an ox in war.
Don't count your eggs before they're hatched.
Don't gather cracked eggs.
Don't put all your eggs in one basket.
Eggs and oaths are easily broken.
Eggs can't teach the hen.
From fried eggs come no chickens.
Half an egg is better than the shell.
He that steals an egg will steal a chicken.
He that would have eggs must endure the cackling of hens.
He who lays a good egg has a right to cackle.
If you want an egg, demand an ox.
'Tis very hard to shave an egg.
Neither an egg nor an ego is any good until you break it.
Other people's eggs have two yolks.
The more you stir a rotten egg, the more it stinks.
There's always a bad egg in every crowd.
Where you lay your egg, pick your grain.
You can't carry an egg in two baskets.
You can't spoil a rotten egg.
You can't tell whether an egg is good by looking at its shell.
You can't unscramble eggs.
The elbow is near, but try and bite it.
There's no elbow that bends outward.
Elbow grease gives the best polish.
Respect your elders.
An elephant is an elephant whether on high or low ground.
An elephant is not won with anger.
An elephant never forgets.
At home an elephant, abroad a cat.
Don't look a gift elephant in the tusk.
Lots of elephants can't be on one flea, but lots of fleas can be on one elephant.
You can't kill an elephant shooting at a mouse hole.
You can't kill an elephant with bird shot.
Eleven don't make a dozen.
Give an ell and they'll take a mile.
Eloquence is saying the right thing at the right time.
Eloquence is the child of knowledge.
No one else will do it for you.
Be an employee and work eight hours; be a boss and your work is never done.
It is the employee who knows how; it is the employer who knows why.
Strike while your employer has a big contract.
To emulate is to envy.
All things come to an end.
At the end of the work, you may judge the workman.
If everyone had his own ends, all would come to a bad end.
If you play both ends against the middle, the middle will soon fold up.
In the end, all will mend.
It will all work out in the end.
The end crowns the work.
The end justifies the means.
The end of the thief is the gallows.
The heavy end of a match is the light end.
First endure, then pity, then embrace.
He that endures is not overcome.
A common enemy makes friends.
A dead enemy is as good as a cold friend.
A wise enemy is better than a foolish friend.
All men think their enemies ill men.
Always forgive your enemies.
An enemy does not sleep.
An enemy may chance to give good counsel.
An enemy's mouth seldom speaks well.
Better a certain enemy than a doubtful friend.
Better an open enemy than a false friend.
Beware of enemies reconciled and meat twice boiled.
Despise not your enemy.
Don't believe your enemy even when he's telling the truth.
Don't try to get even with your enemies; try to get even with your friends.
Every man is his own worst enemy.
Every man's your enemy till he proves your friend.
From the enemy you learn a lot.
He that conquers himself conquers an enemy.
If you have no enemies, it is a sign fortune has forgot you.
It is easier to forgive an enemy than a friend.
Kill your enemy with kindness.
Learn even from an enemy.
Lend money to an enemy and you will gain him, to a friend and you will lose  him.
Love your enemy--but don't put a gun in his hand.
Make your enemy your friend.
Never make an enemy when you can keep a friend.
Never underestimate an enemy.
Once an enemy, always an enemy.
One enemy is too much for a man, and a hundred friends are too few.
Rejoice not when your enemy falls.
The enemies of my enemies are my friends.
There is no little enemy, Rec.
To make enemies, talk; to make friends, listen.
We carry our greatest enemies within US.
You cannot jest an enemy into a friend, but you can jest a friend into an enemy.
You can win your enemy by love.
The energy we use in getting even might be used in getting ahead.
Don't race your engine or you'll burn out a bearing.
Once an Englishman, always an Englishman.
Enjoy yourself: it's later than you think.
He enjoys much who is thankful for a little.
Enjoyment is a part of living.
Enough is a feast to a hungry man.
Enough is as good as a feast.
Enough is enough.
Enough is what would satisfy US if the neighbors didn't have any more.
Enough of a good thing is plenty.
Let well enough alone.
Many have by far too much, but nobody enough.
More than enough is too much.
Time enough always proves little enough.
To whom a little is not enough, nothing is enough.
Too few know when they possess enough, and fewer know how to enjoy it.
EnthUSiasm is that driving force that overcomes all obstacles.
Nothing great was ever achieved without enthusiasm.
Temper your enthUSiasm with judgment.
Better be envied than pitied.
What a man can be is born with him; what he becomes is a result of his  environment.
A friend's envy is worse than an enemy's hatred.
Envy doesn't enter an empty hoUSe.
Envy feeds on the living; it ceases when they are dead.
Envy has smarting eyes.
Envy is a kind of praise.
Envy is blind.
Envy is destroyed by true friendship.
Envy is the basest of all enemies.
Envy is the sincerest form of flattery.
Envy is what inclines US to speak evil of the virtuous rather than of the wicked.
Envy never dwells in noble souls.
Envy never has a holiday.
If envy were a rash, the whole town would be Ill.
The dog of envy barks at a celebrity.
The envioUS die, but envy never.
Equals make the best friends.
An equal going is equal to an equal loss.
In the bathhouse all are equal.
Equality begins in the grave.
Equality breeds no war.
Equity regards that as done which ought to be done.
They wouldn't make erasers if we all didn't make mistakes.
To err is human; to forgive, divine.
Erring is not cheating.
Admitting error clears the score and proves you wiser than before.
Error cannot be defended by error.
Error is the force that welds men together.
Error is worse than ignorance.
Errors, like straws, float on the surface.
From errors of others a wise man corrects his own.
Honest error is to be pitied not ridiculed.
It is great error to make oneself for more than one is or less than one is worth.
One error breeds more.
Too many Eskimos, too few seals.
Great estates may venture more; little boats must keep near shore.
Many estates are spent in getting.
Eternity has no gray hairs.
We can crowd eternity into an hour or stretch an hour into eternity.
A joyous evening often leads to a sorrowful morning.
Evening red and morning gray will send the sailor on his way, but evening gray  and morning red will bring rain down upon his head.
The evening brings all home.
Coming events cast their shadows before.
Great events give scope for great virtues.
The event proves the act.
We are not here to lead events but to follow them.
 Everybody to his own taste.
Everybody to their own notion.
He labors in vain who tries to please everybody.
Everyone can't be first.
Everyone enjoys himself in his own way.
Everyone excels in something in which someone fails.
Everyone for himself.
Everyone has his lot and a wide world before him.
Everyone is a master and a servant.
Everyone lives by selling something.
Everyone prefers his own.
Everyone speaks for his own interest.
Everyone to his equal.
A place for everything and everything in its place.
Could everything be done twice everything would be done better.
Doing everything is doing nothing.
Everything comes to him who waits.
Everything does not fall that totters.
Everything has a beginning.
Everything has its price.
Everything has two sides.
Everything is funny as long as it is happening to somebody else.
Everything is good for something.
Everything is not all peaches and cream.
Everything is the worse for wear.
Everything looks blue to the jaundiced eye.
Everything that goes up must come down.
Everything that is worth having must be paid for.
Everything will turn out for the best.
Give some people everything you have and they still want the moon.
No one has everything.
One can get USed to everything, even hanging.
There is a remedy for everything, could we but hit upon it.
There's a time and place for everything.
There's everything in a name.
To know everything is to know nothing.
Hear the evidence before you pass sentence.
Apprehension of evil is often worse than the evil itself.
Avoid evil and it will avoid you.
Bad to do evil, but worse to boast of it.
Cease to do evil, learn to do well.
Choose the lesser of two evils.
Desperate evils require desperate remedies.
Destroy the seed of evil, or it will grow up to your ruin.
Do no evil and fear no harm.
Do not look for wrong and evil.
Doing evil is fun, but it costs less to be good.
Evil is brought on by oneself.
Evil is wrought for want of thought.
Evil seldom goes alone.
Evil to him who evil thinks.
Evil will be its own downfall.
Evil won is evil lost.
For every evil under the sun there is a remedy or there is none.
He who does evil comes to an evil end.
He who does evil suspects evil on the part of his fellow man.
He who speaks evil hears worse.
He who thinks evil wishes it on himself.
If a man wishes to know the strength of evil, let him try to abandon it.
If you help the evil, you hurt the good.
In avoiding one evil care must be taken not to fall into another.
Keep your tongue from evil.
Money is the root of all evil.
Never do evil for evil.
Never do evil hoping that good will come of it.
Of two evils, choose the prettier.
One does evil enough when one does nothing good.
One evil breeds another.
Roots of evil bear bitter fruits.
See no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil.
Small evils hatch quick.
Take the evil with the good.
That which is evil is soon learned.
The evils you do two by two you pay for one by one.
We cannot do evil to others without doing it to ourselves.
Who rewards evil for good, evil shall not depart his house.
Nothing evil or good lasts a hundred years.
Nothing is evil but thinking makes it so.
The track of evil thought is crooked and has no end.
Evil gotten, evil spent.
 Fret not for yourself because of evildoers.
The evildoer is ever anxious.
The evildoer weeps.
The ewes who bleat lose most of their meat.
An exaggeration is the truth that has lost its temper.
He who exalts himself shall be humbled.
Examine what is said, not him who speaks.
 A good example is the best sermon.
Example is better than following it.
Example is better than precept.
Example is the strongest part of education.
Nothing is so infectious as example.
Excellence is its own reward.
There is an exception to every rule.
Nothing in excess is best.
The excesses of our youth are draughts upon our old age.
A fair exchange is no robbery.
A poor excuse is better than none.
Any excuse will serve a tyrant.
Don't make excuses; make good.
He who is good at making excuses is seldom good at anything else.
If you have a good excuse, don't use it.
One excuse is as good as another.
Who excuses himself accuses himself.
The execution of the laws is more important than the making of them.
The only exercise some people get is jumping to conclusions.
It is not enough just to exist; you have to live.
Expect to be treated as you have treated others.
Expectation always surpasses realization.
Least expected, sure to happen.
Long expected comes at last.
Beware of little expenses.
He is poor whose expenses exceed his income.
In hard times the wise man cuts his expenses; the foolish spendthrift cuts his  throat.
A thimbleful of experience is worth a tubful of knowledge.
A thorn of experience is worth a wilderness of advice.
Everyone must learn by experience.
Experience bought by suffering teaches wisdom.
Experience is a comb which fate gives to a man when his hair is all gone.
Experience is a dear school, but fools learn in no other.
Experience is a dear teacher.
Experience is a hard master but a good teacher.
Experience is good if not bought too dear.
Experience is not what happens to a person, but what one does with what  happens to him.
Experience is something you get when looking for something else.
Experience is the blind man's dog.
Experience is the father of wisdom and memory the mother.
Experience is the mother of knowledge.
Experience is the mother of science.
Experience is the stuff life is made of.
Experience is the teacher of fools.
Experience teaches slowly and at the cost of mistakes.
Experience teaches wisdom unto fools.
Experience tests the truth.
Experience without learning is better than learning without experience.
Experience without learning is the delusion of fancy.
Listen to the voice of experience, but also make use of your brains.
Some folks speak from experience; others, from experience, don't speak.
Wide experience makes for deep tolerance.
You must profit from experience.
Your expression is the most important thing you can wear.
A fair exterior is a silent recommendation.
Extremes meet.
One extreme follows another.
Man's extremity is God's opportunity.
A man may have a thousand eyes, yet if his mind is blank, he cannot see a  thing.
A rolling eye, a roving heart.
A roving eye misses opportunities close by.
An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.
Bad eyes never see any good.
Big eyes mean small stomachs.
Blue eyes, true eyes.
Calf eyes, calf love.
Closed eyes cannot see roses; neither can cold hands hold them.
Don't fire until you see the white of his eye.
Every shut eye ain't asleep.
Four eyes see more than two.
He that winks with the eye causes sorrow.
He who hasn't anything to do pulls his wife's eyes out.
However high the eye may rise, it will find the eyebrow above it.
If the eye won't admire, the heart won't desire.
It is better to get something in your eye and then wink than to wink and then get  something in your eye.
It is better to trust the eye than the ear.
Keep your eyes on the future, never on the past.
Keep your eyes wide open before marriage, half shut afterwards.
Keep your mouth shut and your eyes open.
Man was born with two eyes and only one tongue in order that he might see  twice as much as he says.
Never rub your eye but with your elbow.
No eye like the master's eye.
One eye has more faith than two ears.
Open your eyes to the facts.
Our eyes are placed in front because it is more important to look ahead than  behind.
That which catches the eye also catches the penny.
The eye is not satisfied with seeing.
The eye of the master does more than his hand.
The eye that sees all things sees not itself.
The eyes are bigger than the stomach.
The eyes are of little use if the mind be blind.
The eyes are the windows of the soul.
The master's eye makes the horse fat.
We see least with borrowed eyes.
What the eye doesn't see, the heart doesn't grieve for.
What the eyes see, the heart believes.
Whatever catches our eye long enough will catch us.
You can look in the eyes but not in the heart.
You may know de way, but better keep yo' eyes on de seven stars.
He who weeps for everybody soon loses his eyesight.
You may have perfect eyesight and be as blind as a bat.
One eyewitness is better than ten hearsays.
A beautiful face is a silent commendation.
A face without a smile is like a lantern without a light.
A fair face may hide a foul heart.
A good face needs no paint.
A kind face needs no bond.
A long face makes a long road seem twice as long.
A long face shortens your list of friends.
A man with a pockmarked face will laugh at another's freckles.
A man without a smiling face must not open a shop.
A pretty face has been the downfall of many a man.
A pretty face may hide an empty head.
Be it ever so homely, there's no face like your own.
Do not make ugly faces at others until you can improve your own.
Faces are stubborn things.
Fair faces go places.
It matters more what's in a woman's face than what's on it.
Long faces make short lives.
May the man be damned and never gain fat who wears two faces under one hat.
Men's faces are not to be trusted.
Never carry two faces under one hood.
New face, new fancy.
Pretty face, poor fate.
The best way to save face is to keep it covered.
The face is a mask; look behind it.
The face is the index of the mind, but appearances are deceitful.
Turn your face to the sun and the shadows will fall behind you.
When men come face to face, their differences vanish.
A single fact is worth a shipload of argument.
Fact is stranger than fiction.
Facts are better than theories.
Facts are facts.
Facts are stubborn things.
Facts don't lie.
Get your facts first, and then you can distort them as much as you please.
It ain't the matter of fact, it's the point of view.
Let's face the facts and get at the root of trouble.
One fact is stronger than a dozen texts or pretexts.
We all fade as the leaf.
He fails not who attempts not.
He who never fails will never grow rich.
If one fails, the whole world tramples on him.
Many men fail because they lack purpose.
We see the failings of others but are blind to our own.
A man can fail many times, but he isn't a real failure until he begins to blame  someone else.
Every failure teaches a man something, if he will learn.
Failure breeds failure.
Failure is failure, however close you come to the goal.
Failure is more frequently from want of energy than want of capital.
Failure is not failing down but staying down.
Failure isn't the end of dreams, it is only the beginning.
Failure teaches success.
Failures are the stepping-stones to success.
If there were no failures, there would be no successes.
If we blame others for our failures, we should also give them credit for our  successes.
It is better to die than to live a failure.
Not failure but low aim is a crime.
Nothing beats a failure but a try.
Other men's failures can never save you.
The only failure is to admit failure.
There is no failure except in no longer trying.
We learn something even by our failures.
 All that's fair must fade.
Fair in the cradle, foul in the saddle.
Fair is foul and foul is fair.
If it's long fair, it'll be long foul.
Be fair, be good, and be loved.
Fair and softly go far in a day.
Fair is fair.
If you will it, it will not remain a fairy tale.
A proof of faith is obedience.
All fails when faith fails.
Faith begins where reason stops.
Faith can move mountains.
Faith is inward truth daring the unknown.
Faith is that quality which enables us to believe what we know to be untrue.
Faith is the vision of the heart.
Faith is working in the dark.
Faith laughs at impossibilities.
Faith without works is vain hope.
He who has no faith in others finds no faith in them.
He who is small in faith will never be great but in failure.
If you don't keep faith with man, you can't keep faith with God.
In the affairs of this world, men are saved not by faith but by the want of it.
It's easier to lose faith than to find it again.
Little men are men of little faith; big men have the faith to move mountains.
Pin not your faith on another's sleeve.
Respect faith, but doubt is what gets you an education.
Show your faith by your works.
Trust not him that has once broken faith.
Better to be faithful than successful.
Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful.
Faithful in little, faithful in much.
 A little thing is a little thing, but faithfulness in a little thing is a big thing.
Faithfulness to duty brings rewards.
A late fall means a hard winter.
Long fall, late spring.
Everything does not fall that totters.
Fall but don't bawl.
If a man once falls, all will tread on him.
It's easier to fall than to get on your feet.
One may sooner fall than rise.
The harder you fall, the higher you bounce.
By falling we learn to go safely.
Failing hurts least those who fly low.
Falling is easier than rising.
Keeping from falling is better than helping up.
To keep from falling, keep on climbing.
Press not a falling man too hard.
An hour perhaps divides the false and truth.
False with one can be false with two.
Falsehood is a nettle that stings those who meddle with it.
Falsehood is a red apple rotten at the core.
Falsehood is the darkness of faith.
Falsehood will not bear to be examined in every point of view.
One falsehood leads to another.
Better fame than face.
Common fame is often a common liar.
Fame always follows virtuous and glorious actions.
Fame is a bugle call blown past a crumbling wall.
Fame is better than fortune.
Fame is longer than life.
Fame is the last infirmity of noble minds.
Fame one day, zero the next.
From fame to infamy is a much-traveled road.
In seeking fame and profit, depend only on yourself and not others.
Some have the fame, and others live in shame.
Beware of those who get familiar quickly.
Familiarity breeds contempt.
A family is a twosome that grew some.
Every family has a goddess of mercy.
In a united family happiness springs up of itself.
The family who prays together stays together.
There's a black sheep in every family.
You can't have a family fuss without the whole town knowing about it.
 All's good in a famine.
When famine must be fed, crumbs are as good as bread.
Ever let the fancy roam; pleasure never is at home.
False fancy brings real misery.
Fancy may bolt bran and think it flour.
Fancy runs most furiously when a guilty conscience drives it.
For every fancy you consult, consult your purse.
In spring a young man's fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love.
It is the fancy, not the reason of things, that makes us so uneasy.
One man's fancy, another man's poison.
Rule your fancy with your reason, or it will overrule you.
You can take the girl away from the farm, but you can't take the farm away  from the girl.
A farmer has a lot of woes.
A farmer on his knees is higher than a gentleman on his legs.
It's the farmer's care that makes the field bear.
The farmer feeds them all.
The farmer tickles the land and the crops tickle him.
The farmer was the first man, and he will be the last.
You can take the farmer out of the country, but you can't take the country out of  the farmer.
Go farther and fare worse.
He goes farthest that knows not where he is going.
Better be dead than out of fashion.
No matter how fashions change, a ruffled temper will never be in style.
The faster they are, the farther they go.
Get there fastest with the mostest.
A man must take the fat with the lean.
Fat people are jolly people.
It ain't over till the fat lady sings.
It isn't what you like that makes you fat-it's what you eat.
Nobody loves a fat man.
Everyone is more or less master of his own fate.
Fate can be taken by the horns, like a goat, and pushed in the right direction.
Fate gives us parents; choice gives us friends.
The fates lead the willing man; the unwilling they drag.
There's no flying from fate.
You cannot escape your fate.
A father's a treasure; a brother's a comfort; a friend is both.
A miserly father makes a prodigal son.
A thrifty father rarely has thrifty sons.
Despise not your father when he is old.
The father is the head, but the mother is the heart.
Father knows best.
Father works from sun to sun, but mother's work is never done.
Honor your father and your mother.
It's a wise father who knows his own son.
Like father, like son.
Many a good father has a bad son.
No man is responsible for his father.
The father is the guest who best becomes the table.
The father to his desk, the mother to her dishes.
To become a father is easy, but to be a father is difficult.
What's good enough for father is good enough for me.
When a father praises his son he flatters himself.
You cannot choose your father, but you choose your father's son.
A fault confessed is half redressed.
Avoid great faults by keeping away from small ones.
Bad men excuse their faults; good men leave them.
Be not lenient to your own faults.
Before you flare up at anyone's faults, take time to count ten of your own.
Blame not others for the faults that are in you.
By others' faults wise men correct their own.
Condemn the fault and not the actor of it.
Don't find fault with what you don't understand.
Every man has his faults.
Faults are thick when love is thin.
Find faults in yourself before finding faults in others.
Forgive every man's faults except your own.
Forgive others' faults by remembering your own.
Go hide the faults of others and God will veil your own.
He who does one fault at first and lies to hide it makes it two.
He who sees his own faults is too busy to see the faults of others.
If someone betrays you once, it is his fault.
In every fault there is folly.
It is well that our faults are not written on our faces.
No man is born without faults, but he is best who has the fewest.
Not to repent of a fault is to justify it.
Our faults are more pardonable than the methods we use to hide them.
Our greatest faults we soonest see in others.
People should cure their own faults before finding faults in others.
Rich men have no faults.
Small faults indulged in are little thieves that let in greater.
The greatest of faults is to be conscious of none.
The most faulty always find fault.
The real fault is to have faults and not try to amend them.
The way to avoid great faults is to be aware of little ones.
There is no fault in a thing we want badly.
We are more agreeable through our faults than through our qualities.
We easily forget our faults when they are known only to ourselves.
We see the faults of others but not our own.
We tax our friends with faults but see not our own.
Wink at small faults.
With the old year leave your faults, however dear.
Your own faults look as big to the other fellow as his do to you.
Nothing is easier than fault finding.
He is dead that is faultless.
A favor ill placed is great waste.
A favor to come is better than a hundred received.
An ounce of favor goes further than a pound of justice.
Don't ask a man for a favor before he has had his lunch.
Favor is deceitful, and beauty is vain.
If you accept favors from crooked men, you sell yourself down the river.
If you want a favor done, ask a busy man.
Many will entreat the favor of the prince.
Small favors are thankfully received.
The first time is a favor, the second time a rule.
A favorite has no friends.
Favorites are commonly unfortunate.
A slave to fear creates a hell on earth.
Don't let fear hold you back.
Fear always springs from ignorance.
Fear brings more pain than does the pain.
Fear has many eyes.
Fear has torment.
Fear is a fine spur; so is rage.
Fear is a great inventor.
Fear is stronger than love.
Fear is the beginning of wisdom.
Fear is the father of cruelty.
Fear is the virtue of slaves.
Fear kills more than illness.
Fear mothers safety, but it often smothers it.
Fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.
If you fear to suffer, you suffer from fear.
Men who fear to live are in love with fear.
The fear of death is more to be dreaded than death itself.
The fear of God makes the heart shine.
The fear's greater than the reason for it.
The only thing we have to fear is fear itself.
Where there is fear, there is modesty.
Where there is fear, there is shame.
Fear no man, and do justice to all men.
If you fear that people will know, don't do it.
We seldom fear what we can laugh at.
Better a man be feared than despised.
Be first at a feast and last at a fight.
Feast today makes fast tomorrow.
It's either a feast or a famine.
Keep the feast till feast day.
Merry is the feast making till we come to the reckoning.
Feast and your halls are crowded.
Feasting is the physician's harvest.
A feather in the hand is better than a bird in the air.
A pound of feathers and a pound of iron weigh the same.
Fair feathers make fair fowl.
Feather by feather a goose is plucked.
Feathers float, but pearls lie low.
Fine feathers do not make fine birds.
Puttin' feathers on a buzzard don't make it no eagle.
Stroke the feathers the right way.
Where the feathers fly is where the shot hit.
You can't get feathers off a toad.
You can't put new feathers on a bird.
You can't stick a feather in a frog's tail and make a peacock out of it.
Great men never feel great; small men never feel small.
Feelings are useless without words.
In order to judge another's feelings, remember your own.
The first blow does not fell the tree.
An artful fellow is the devil in a doublet.
Don't kick a fellow when he's down.
Never trust a fellow that wears a suit.
Female is one head with two faces.
The female of the species is more deadly than the male.
A fence between makes friends more keen.
Do not protect yourself by a fence, but rather by friends.
Everything worthwhile has a fence around it, but there is always a gate and a  key.
Fences mean nothing to those who can fly.
Good fence: horse high and bull strong.
Good fences make good neighbors.
Never climb a fence until you get to the stile.
No fence against a flail.
No fence against gold.
No fence against ill fortune.
Those who tell one fib will hardly stop at two.
The fiddle makes the feast.
The older the fiddle, the better the tune.
You cannot play a fiddle without a fiddlestick.
He who fiddles doesn't dance.
If you can't pay the fiddler, you had better not dance.
Fidelity is a noble virtue, yet justice is nobler still.
A field becomes exhausted by constant tillage.
A field has three needs: good weather, good seed, and a good husbandman.
Distant fields look greener.
Do not neglect your own field and plow your neighbor's.
Fields on the other side of the fence are greener.
Out of old fields comes new grain.
You can't grow figs from thistles.
 It takes two to make a fight.
The tougher the fight, the sweeter the triumph.
When the fight begins with himself, a man's worth something.
 He who fights and runs away may live to fight another day.
If you fight for someone, you won't fight with him.
No fight, no win.
You can't keep from getting soiled if you fight with a skunk.
Be not a figure among ciphers.
Figures are not always facts.
Figures don't lie.
He who goes to sleep in filth gets up dirty.
The more you stir filth, the worse it smells.
Finance is the art of using other people's money to acquire some for yourself.
Finders keepers, losers weepers.
Finding is keeping.
Clean your finger before you point at my spot.
Don't put your finger in too tight a ring.
Fingers were made before knives and forks.
Five fingers hold more than two forks.
Give him a finger and he will take a hand.
If you want your finger bit, stick it in a possum's mouth.
The finger hurts more than the nail.
The fingers of the housewife do more than a yoke of oxen.
The moving finger writes and, having written, moves on.
Too many fingers spoil the pie.
When you point one finger at someone else, you point three at yourself.
A dirty fire never made a clean weld.
A fair fire makes a room gay.
A fire is never out until the last spark is extinguished.
A fire scorches from near, a beautiful woman from near and from afar.
A girl who cannot build a fire will have a lazy husband.
A good fire makes a good cook.
A hidden fire may be discovered by its smoke.
A smothered fire may rekindle.
A watched fire never burns.
All fires are the same size at the start.
Behold what a fire a little matter kindles.
Better a little fire to warm us than a big one to burn us.
Can't carry fire in one hand and water in the other.
Covered fire is always stronger.
Don't light your fire until you have gathered your sticks.
Don't play with fire.
Fight fire with fire.
Fire and flax agree not.
Fire and water do not mix.
Fire doesn't burn without a flame.
Fire is a good servant but a bad master.
Fire is not to be quenched with tow.
Fire is the test of gold.
Fire kept closest burns best of all.
He that can make a fire well can end a quarrel.
He that makes a fire of straw has much smoke but little warmth.
He who blows in the fire will get sparks in his eyes.
He who comes through the fire will not fade in the sun.
Hidden fires are always the hottest.
It is easy to poke another man's fire.
Keep the home fires burning.
Kindle not a fire that you cannot extinguish.
Never stir the fire with a sword.
No one can scatter his fire indefinitely.
Oft fire is without smoke, and peril without show.
Old fires are easily rekindled.
Seldom poke another's fire, or you may rouse his burning ire.
Soft fire makes sweet malt.
The fire burns brightest on one's own hearth.
The fire in the flint shows not until it is struck.
The fire you kindle for your enemy often burns yourself more than him.
The nearer the fire, the hotter it is.
Those who are easily burned should never go near the fire.
When the fire burns in the soul, the tongue cannot be silent.
You can hide the fire, but not the smoke.
Fireflies shine only when in motion.
The light of the firefly is sufficient for itself only.
He who cuts his own firewood has it warm him twice.
We usually admire firmness in ourselves but find it darned stubbornness in  others.
When firmness is sufficient, rashness is unnecessary.
Be not the first by whom the new is tried.
First come, first served.
First gets the worst.
First is worst, second the same, last is best of all the game.
The first shall be last and the last, first.
Everyone can't be first.
Put first things first.
The first hundred years are the hardest.
Git there firstest with the mostest.
He who comes first grinds first.
A dead fish can float downstream, but it takes a live one to swim upstream.
A fish never nibbles at the same hook twice.
A fish wouldn't get caught if it kept its mouth shut.
All fish are not caught with flies.
All's fish that come to his net.
Better a big fish in a little puddle than a little fish in a big puddle.
Better a small fish than an empty dish.
Big fish are caught in a big river.
Big fish are caught with little hooks.
Catch no more fish than you can salt.
Do not make fish of one and flesh of another.
Don't clean your fish before you catch it.
Don't count your fish before you get them.
Don't count your fish until on dry land.
Every fish is not a sturgeon.
Every fish that escapes seems greater than it is.
Every little fish would become a whale.
Fish and callers smell in three days.
Fish begin to stink at the head, men at the feet.
Fish have no language.
Fish on the hook is better than ten in the brook.
Great fishes are caught in great waters.
He who has the longest nets catches the biggest fish.
He who would catch fish must not mind getting wet.
If you catch fish, you're a fisherman.
It is a silly fish that is caught twice with the same bait.
It is only the excited fish that jumps at the lure.
Little fish swim in shallow water.
Lose a small fish to catch a big one.
No fish was ever so full he wouldn't bite at something.
Sma' fish are better than nae fish.
That fish is soon caught who nibbles at every bait.
The big fish eat the little ones, the little ones eat shrimps, and the shrimps are  forced to eat mud.
The fish that escapes is the biggest fish of all.
The fish that has once felt the hook suspects the crooked metal in every food  which is offered.
The hasty angler loses the fish.
The sea is full of other fish.
There are better fish in the sea than have ever been caught.
 There's a fish in every sea and a pebble on every beach.
 Do not fish in front of a net.
Fish or cut bait.
There is a time to fish and a time to dry nets.
A dry fisherman and a wet hunter are a sorry sight.
A fisherman, once stung, will be wiser.
Fishermen never see fish stink.
Old fishermen never die, they just smell that way.
While the kingfisher and the oyster are struggling, the fisherman gets both.
Going fishing without beer makes the day last a year.
It's good fishing in troubled waters.
One at a time is good fishing.
The best fishing is in the deepest water.
A closed fist is the lock of heaven, and the open hand is the key of mercy.
A worn flag is an honor to the capital.
An old flame is easily kindled.
An old flame never dies.
Don't fan the flame that supports the fire.
The flame is not far from the smoke.
The flame of a setting sun tells you there are better days to come.
Stick to your flannels until they stick to you.
A man that flatters his neighbor spreads a net for his feet.
He who flatters me is my enemy; he who reproves me is my teacher.
If no one flatters you, you flatter yourself.
If you reward the chap who flatters you, you are begging for his flattery.
The man who flatters you is a liar: the greater the flattery, the bigger the liar.
A flatterer has a venal tongue.
All flatterers live at the expense of those they flatter.
Beware the flatterer.
Flatterers are cats that lick before and scratch behind.
Flatterers are clever mind readers: they tell us exactly what we think.
If he's your flatterer, he can't be your friend.
The flatterer scratches you where you itch.
The flatterer's bite is poisonous.
When flatterers meet, Satan goes to dinner.
Be not led by flattery.
Bold flattery gives an impression of insincerity.
Do not let flattery throw you off guard against an enemy.
Flattery begets friends, but the truth begets enmity.
Flattery butters no parsnips.
Flattery is a vice disguised as a virtue.
Flattery is like an empty tomb on which friendship is inscribed.
Flattery is not a proof of true admiration.
Flattery is soft soap, and soft soap is ninety percent lye.
Flattery is sweet food to those who can swallow it.
Flattery is sweet poison.
Flattery is the bellows that blows up sin.
Flattery is the food of fools.
Flattery is the last resort of fools.
Flattery, like perfume, should be smelled, not swallowed.
Flattery makes friends.
Flattery will get you nowhere.
He that rewards flattery begs it.
The coin that is most current is flattery.
The most flattering flattery is to be told you cannot be flattered.
There is flattery in friendship.
A certain amount of fleas are good for a dog.
Do not flay a flea for hide and tallow.
Even a flea can bite.
Little fleas have lesser fleas.
The brave flea dares to eat his breakfast on the lip of a lion.
The fatter the flea, the leaner the dog.
He who flees proves himself guilty.
All flesh is grass.
After your fling, watch for the sting.
Strike a flint and you get fire.
A flirt gets paid in her own coin.
Saturday's flitting is short sitting.
A May flood never did good.
A dirty floor means a busy stove.
The Spaniards discovered Florida and the Georgians populated it.
To flourish is one thing, to fight another.
A flow will have an ebb.
Cherish some flower, be it ever so lowly.
Fair flowers are never left standing by the wayside.
Flowers are always brighter in the next field.
Flowers are the pledges of fruit.
Flowers bloom in the spring.
Flowers leave fragrance in the hand that bestows them.
Flowers of true friendship never fade.
Flowers open without choosing the rich man's garden.
Give me a flower while I live, and don't bother when I'm dead.
If you don't give flowers water, they die.
Many a flower is born to blush unseen.
One flower makes no garland.
Painted flowers have no scent.
Say it with flowers.
The flower of sweetest smell is shy and lowly.
The handsomest flower is not the sweetest.
The same flowers that adorn a bride are placed on a corpse.
There is no pathway of flowers leading to glory.
Where the flower is, the honey is also.
 A fly follows the honey.
 A fly may conquer a lion.
A person is not a fly.
Big flies break the spiderweb.
Can't kill flies with a spear.
Dying flies spoil the sweetness of the ointment.
Even a fly has its spleen.
Flies never bother a boiling pot.
You can catch more flies with molasses than vinegar.
He who flies high must keep on flying.
The higher they fly, the harder they fall.
You cannot fly with one wing.
A courageous foe is better than a cowardly friend.
A foe to God was never a true friend to man.
He makes a foe who makes a jest.
There are worser ills than to face foemen in the fray.
A summer's fog will roast a hog.
A winter's fog will freeze a dog.
Folks never understand the folks they hate.
Good folks are scarce.
It takes all sorts of folks to make up the world.
Little folks are fond of talking about what great folks do.
Mad folks and proverbs reveal many truths.
Poor folks are glad of porridge.
Straight folk never make broken promises.
He who follows another is always behind.
Some must follow and some command.
A man's folly ought to be his greatest secret.
Folly and beauty walk hand in hand.
Folly has a fall before it.
Folly is an incurable disease.
It is the ordinary way of the world to keep folly at the helm and wisdom under  the hatches.
No country or age has a monopoly on human folly.
Profit by the folly of others.
The first degree of folly is to conceit one's self wise, the second to profess it, the  third to despise counsel.
The follies of a fool are known to the world and not to himself; the follies of a  wise man are known to himself but not to the world.
The folly of one man is the fortune of another.
The shortest follies are the best.
What is a poor man's folly is a rich man's gain.
When folly passes by, reason draws back.
Another man's food is sweeter.
Chatted food is half digested.
Food without hospitality is medicine.
Forbidden food is sweetest.
He has sorry food who feeds on the faults of others.
More die of food than famine.
Never throw away food that will make a pig open his mouth.
One man's food may be another man's poison.
The food consumed today shapes your figure tomorrow.
Who has burnt himself with hot food blows it cold.
A fool always finds a bigger fool to praise him.
A fool always finds a greater fool to admire.
A fool always talks most when he has the least to say.
A fool and his money are soon parted.
A fool and his words are soon parted.
A fool believes everything.
A fool can ask more questions in a minute than a wise man can answer in an  hour.
A fool demands much, but he's a greater fool that gives it.
A fool despises his father's correction, but he that regards reproof grows  prudent.
A fool has few friends.
A fool has no understanding but that his heart may discover itself.
A fool is born every minute.
A fool is known by his conversation.
A fool is like other men as long as he is silent.
A fool laughs at his own folly.
A fool laughs at his own jokes.
A fool laughs when others laugh.
A fool may give a wise man counsel.
A fool may talk, but a wise man speaks.
A fool might be counted wise if he kept his mouth shut.
A fool never changes his mind, but a wise man does.
A fool over forty is a fool indeed.
A fool says I can't.
A fool says what he knows; a wise man knows what he says.
A fool sees not the same tree that a wise man sees.
A fool talks when he should be listening.
A fool talks while a wise man thinks.
A fool talks with his ears stuffed up.
A fool thinks nothing is right but what he does himself.
A fool utters all his mind, but a wise man keeps it in till afterwards.
A fool who keeps his mouth closed fools the whole world.
A fool will ask for a glass of water when he is drowning.
A fool's bolt is soon shot.
A fool's head never grows white.
A fool's mouth is his destruction.
A fool's tongue is long enough to cut his throat.
A fool's treasure is in his tongue.
A fool's wrath is presently known, but a prudent man covers his shame.
A man is a stark fool all the while he is angry.
A man's a fool till he's 40.
A prating fool shall fall.
A silent fool is a wise fool.
All men are fools, but the wisest of fools are called philosophers.
An educated fool is dangerous.
Answer a fool according to his folly.
Any fool knows his mother, but 'tis a wise man that can tell who his father is.
Any fool knows more than his father.
Any fool may make money, but it takes a wise man to keep it.
Arguing with a fool shows there are two.
As a rule, man's a fool: when it's hot, he wants it cool; when it's cool, he wants  it hot--always wanting what is not.
Better a kindly fool than a proud wise man.
Better a witty fool than a foolish wit.
Better be a fool and know it than be a damn fool and not know it.
Better to be a fool with a crowd than a wise man by oneself.
By rote rule goes many a fool.
Do not be proud of being a fool.
Even a fool can learn.
Even a fool carries his coat in the rain.
Every fool wants to give advice.
Every man has a fool in his sleeve.
Fool is he who deals with other fools.
Fools and children tell the truth.
Fools are never uneasy.
Fools are the worst thieves: they rob you of time and temper.
Fools are wise men in the affairs of women.
Fools build houses for wise men to live in.
Fools cannot hold their tongues.
Fools despise wisdom and instruction.
Fools die for want of wisdom.
Fools die young and look sickly.
Fools fall the hardest.
Fools fight one another; wise men agree.
Fools for arguments use wagers.
Fools give parties; sensible people go to them.
Fools go in crowds.
Fools grow without watering.
Fools make feasts and wise men eat them.
Fools multiply folly.
Fools' names and fools' faces are always seen in public places.
Fools never prosper.
Fools reflect on what they have said, wise men on what they are going to say.
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
Fools seldom differ.
Fools set stools for wise men to fall over.
Fools think alike, and great minds run in the same channel.
Fools tie knots, and wise men loosen them.
Fools try to convince a woman, but wise men persuade her.
Fools will be fools still.
Fools will be meddling.
Forbid a fool a thing, and that he'll do.
Give a fool an inch and he'll take a mile.
Give a fool enough rope and he'll hang himself.
Go on, fools, hell's only half full.
He is a fool that kisses the maid when he may kiss the mistress.
He is a fool that makes his doctor his heir.
He is a fool that takes a fool's advice.
He is a fool who cannot be angry, but he is wise who will not.
He is a fool who cannot conceal his knowledge.
He is the greatest fool who asks for what he can't have.
He that talks to himself talks to a fool.
He that teaches himself has a fool for a teacher.
He that would make a fool of himself will find many to help him.
He who is born a fool is never cured.
He who knows he is a fool is not a big fool.
He who passes judgment on a fool is himself judged to be a fool.
He who says little may be a fool or a genius.
He who treats himself has a fool for a patient.
He who would be too clever makes a fool of himself.
He's no fool who parts with what he cannot keep to get what he shall not lose.
If a fool goes shopping, there is joy among the shopkeepers.
If a fool is associated with a wise man all his life, he will perceive the truth as  little as a spoon perceives the taste of soup.
If a fool's tongue is long enough, he will hang himself.
If all fools wore white caps, we'd all look like geese.
If fools went not to market, bad wares would not be sold.
If you play with a fool at home, he will play with you abroad.
It is a cunning part to play the fool well.
It is a fool who loves a woman from afar.
It is an honor for a man to cease from strife, but every fool will be meddling.
It is as sport to a fool to do mischief, but a man of understanding has wisdom.
It is better to be thought a fool than to open your mouth and let the world know  it.
It is better to marry a quiet fool than to marry a merry scold.
It is ill manners to silence a fool, and it is cruelty to let him go on.
It takes a fool to know a fool.
It takes a smart woman to be a fool.
Lazy fools drop their tools.
Let fools talk; knowledge still remains.
Live a fool, die a fool.
Men are fools that wish to die.
Neither a fool nor a gentleman should see a thing until it is finished.
Never joke with a fool.
Never judge a fool's work half done.
Never show a fool a half-done job.
No fool, no fun.
No man is always a fool, but every man is sometimes.
None but a fool is always right.
Nothing hides a fool like a closed mouth.
Once a fool, always a fool.
One fool is enough in a house.
One fool makes many.
Only a fool argues with the cook.
Only a fool dares, but a bigger fool takes the dare.
Only a fool is positive.
Only a fool makes the same mistake twice.
Only a fool never changes his mind.
Only fools and horses work.
Only fools are loafers.
Only fools speak or fiddle at the table.
Praise a fool and you make him useful.
Send a fool to the market, and a fool he'll return.
Set a fool to catch a fool.
The biggest fool of all fools is the fool that can be fooled by a fool.
The family of fools is very old.
The fool is busy in everyone's business but his own.
The fool must look to the madman.
The fool that eats till he is sick must fast till he is well.
The fool wanders; the wise man travels.
The fool well dressed is at his best.
The fool wonders; the wise man asks.
The fools do more hurt in this world than the rascals.
The older the fool, the harder he falls.
The poor fool who closes his mouth never makes a dollar.
There is no fool like a learned fool.
There is no fool like an old fool.
Too much prosperity makes most men fools.
Twin fools: one doubts nothing, the other everything.
We all err, but only fools continue in error.
What a fool does in the end, the wise man does in the beginning.
What one fool can do, another can.
When a fool has made up his mind, the market has gone by.
When a man's a fool, his wife will rule.
When fools make mistakes, they lay the blame on providence.
You can fool a fool once, but you can't fool him twice.
Fool me once, shame on you; fool me twice, shame on me.
Fooling others is only fooling yourself.
Foolish is as foolish does.
It takes the foolish to confound the wise.
You can't kid the foolish.
A foolish man despises his mother.
A foolish woman knows a foolish man's heart.
 Foolishness grows by itself-no need to sow it.
 The mouth of fools pours out foolishness.
A going foot always gets something, if it is only a thorn.
Always put your best foot forward.
Better a bare foot than none at all.
Better a foot slip than a friend.
Big feet, large understanding.
Crows' feet are always on the ground.
Do not put your foot further than you can draw it back again.
Don't use your feet, use your head.
Every man should measure himself with his own foot rule.
Feet were made before wheels.
He who has one foot in a brothel has the other in the hospital.
It's a poor foot that can't shape a stocking.
Keep your feet on the ground.
Keep your foot on the mark.
Lift your feet and they'll fall themselves.
Never start off on the wrong foot.
No foot, no horse.
On an unknown path every foot is slow.
One foot is better than two crutches.
Put your foot down where you mean to stand.
Save your foot and grieve your heart.
Settin' still your foot meets nothing.
Stand on your own two feet.
The feet are slow when the head wears snow.
The longer the foot, the higher the man.
There's a foot for every old shoe.
Though feet should slip, never let the tongue.
To walk one must use his feet.
Walk on your own feet.
We would rather die on our feet than live on our knees.
To leave footprints on the sands of time you must have plenty of sand.
You can't put your footprints in the sands of time by sitting down.
Forbid a thing, and that we do.
Everything forbidden is sweet.
Force is no argument.
Never do that by force which may be effected by fair means.
That which had no force in the beginning can gain no strength from the lapse of  time.
There is always room for a man of force, and he makes room for many.
Too much force breeds suspicion.
Use force tempered with kindness.
Where force fails, skill and patience will prevail.
Where force prevails, right perishes.
Who overcomes by force has overcome but half his foe.
He who has crossed the ford knows how deep it is.
He is forehanded who always has a dish out to catch the rain.
You can make the forenoon, but God almighty makes the afternoon.
Foresight is better than hindsight.
If a man's foresight were as good as his hindsight, we would all get somewhere.
Forethought is better than afterthought.
Forewarned is forearmed.
It is better to forget than to remember and regret.
Forgetting is regretting.
Forgetting of a wrong is a mild revenge.
 Forgive and forget.
 Forgive others often, but rarely yourself.
Good to forgive, best to forget.
He who cannot forgive others breaks the bridge over which he must pass  himself.
He who forgives ends the quarrel.
He who wishes to be forgiven must forgive.
It is easier to forgive than forget.
Those who forgive most will be most forgiven.
To forgive is easy; to forget is impossible.
 Forgiveness is better than revenge.
If you want forgiveness, you must be forgiving.
Some things are better forgotten.
A homely form oft holds a handsome heart.
Good form is the yardstick of society.
The outward forms the inward man reveal--we guess the pulp before we cut the  peel.
It's easy to hold the fort when it's not attacked.
A fortress on its guard is not surprised.
 A change in fortune hurts a wise man no more than a change of the moon.
A fortune never passes the second generation.
A great fortune is slavery.
Better a fortune in a wife than with a wife.
Build not up a fortune on the labor of others.
Depend not on fortune but on conduct.
Don't put your fortune in a funnel.
Fortune always leaves one door open in disasters.
Fortune and misfortune are next-door neighbors.
Fortune can take away riches but not courage.
Fortune can take nothing from us but what she gave us.
Fortune comes to him who seeks her.
Fortune doesn't lie at the end of the rainbow, it is found behind some obstacle.
Fortune favors fools.
Fortune favors the brave.
Fortune helps him that is willing to help himself.
Fortune is easy to find but hard to keep.
Fortune is fickle.
Fortune is like glass: it breaks when it is brightest.
Fortune is like price: if you can wait long enough, the price will fall.
Fortune is not often on the side of the fainthearted.
Fortune is the companion of virtue.
Fortune is the good man's prize but the bad man's bane.
Fortune knocks once at every door.
Fortune knows neither reason nor law.
Fortune makes friends; misfortune tries them.
Fortune never comes with both hands full.
Fortune sometimes favors those she afterwards destroys.
If fortune smiles, who doesn't--if fortune doesn't, who does? Rec.
Men never think their fortune too great nor their wit too little.
One man's fortune is another man's folly.
When fortune frowns, friends are few.
When fortune knocks, open the door.
When fortune smiles, embrace her.
When fortune smiles, take the advantage.
When fortune smiles, we ride in chase, and when she frowns, we walk away.
You can't overfill fortune's sacks.
He who never goes forward goes backwards.
A weak foundation destroys the superstructure.
High things must have low foundations.
The deeper the foundation the stronger the house.
Seek not for fresher founts afar; just drop your bucket where you are.
The fountain is clearest at its source.
Black fowl can lay white eggs.
A fox does not smell his own stench.
A fox is not caught twice in the same place.
A fox never goes so far but what his tail will follow him.
An old fox needs not to be taught tricks.
Don't put the fox to guard the henhouse.
Foxes, when they cannot reach the grapes, say they are not ripe.
He that will outwit the fox must rise early.
It's the little foxes that spoil the vines.
Long runs the fox, but at last is caught.
Old foxes are not easily caught.
Old foxes want no tutors.
The fox barks not when he steals a lamb.
The fox changes his skin but not his habits.
The fox condemns the trap, not himself.
The fox may grow gray, but never good.
The sleeping fox catches no poultry.
The smartest fox is caught at last.
Though the fox wear silk, he is still a fox.
When a fox walks lame, old rabbit jumps.
When the fox dies, fowls do not mourn.
When the fox preaches, beware of your geese.
Frailty belongs to the nature of man.
Frailty, your name is woman.
Fraud and cunning are the weapons of the weak.
Fraud is always in a terrible hurry.
Better free in a foreign land than a serf at home.
No man is free who cannot command himself.
A poor freedom is better than rich slavery.
Eternal vigilance is the price of freedom.
Freedom comes before silver and gold.
If we lose our freedom, we have nothing else to lose.
Never wear your best trousers when you go out to fight for freedom.
Who accepts from another sells his freedom.
Fret today, regret tomorrow.
Every day is not Friday; there is also Thursday.
Friday and the week are seldom alike.
Friday begun, never done.
Friday is the fairest or foulest day.
Never start anything important on Friday.
Thank God it's Friday.
 A boy's best friend is his mother.
A faithful friend is better than gold.
A faithful friend is the medicine of life.
A friend at hand is better than a relative at a distance.
A friend by your side can keep you warmer than the richest furs.
A friend cannot be known in prosperity; an enemy cannot be hidden in  adversity.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
A friend in power is a friend lost.
A friend in the market is better than money in the purse.
A friend is a present you give yourself.
A friend is best found in adversity.
A friend is easier lost than found.
A friend is not known till he is lost.
A friend is not so soon gotten as lost.
A friend is one who can be good company with you for an hour without saying  a word.
A friend is to be taken with his faults.
A friend is worth all the hazards we can run.
A friend married is a friend lost.
A friend should bear his friend's infirmities.
A friend to all is a friend to none.
A friend whom you can buy can be bought from you.
A friend won with a feather can be lost with a straw.
A friend's frown is better than a foe's smile.
A good friend is a great treasure.
A good friend is better than a hundred relatives.
A good friend is my nearest relation.
A good friend never offends.
A long spell of illness is apt to point out your best friends.
A man is known by his friends.
A man that has friends must show himself friendly.
A man's best friend and worst enemy is himself.
A man's best friend is his ten fingers.
A person is reflected in the friends he chooses.
A rash friend is worse than a foe.
A reconciled friend is a double enemy.
A rich friend is a treasure.
A true friend is forever a friend.
A true friend is one that steps in when the rest of the world steps out.
A true friend is one who knows all your faults and loves you still.
A true friend is the wine of life.
A true friend is your second self.
A true friend loves at all times.
A true friend worries more over your success than your failure.
All are not friends that speak us fair.
Always take a friend with you and you'll have a friend.
An injured friend is the bitterest of foes.
An old friend do not forsake.
An old friend is a mount for a black day.
An old friend is a new house.
An old friend wears well.
Ascend a step in choosing a friend.
Be a friend to yourself and others will soon be.
Be a friend to yourself; depend not on others.
Be kind to your friends: if it weren't for them, you would be a total stranger.
Be slow in choosing a friend, but slower in changing him.
Before you make a friend, eat a peck of salt with him.
Better have a friend on the road than gold or silver in your purse.
Bought friends are not friends indeed.
Cherish your friend, and temperately admonish your enemy.
Choose not friends by outward show, for feathers float while pearls lie low.
Choose your friends like your book-few but choice.
Contend not with the friend lest you make him an enemy.
Cultivate friends who pray for you, not prey upon you.
Do not count too much on friends.
Don't be a fair-weather friend.
Don't trade old friends for new.
Even a new friend can be tiring.
Fall not out with a friend for a trifle.
Fall sick and you will know who is your friend and who is not.
False friends are like autumn leaves, found everywhere.
False friends are worse than open enemies.
For a good friend, the journey is never too long.
Friends and mules fail us in hard places.
Friends are lost by calling often and calling seldom.
Friends are the surest guards for kings; gold in time does wear away.
Friends are to be preferred to relatives.
Friends have all things in common.
Friends, if often used, wear out.
Friends slowly won are long held.
Friends tie their purses with spider's thread.
Friends will greet where the hills won't meet.
Friends you can count on, you can count on your fingers.
Friends, though absent, are still present.
Go often to the house of a friend.
God protect me from my friends; my enemies I know enough to watch.
Good friends make good neighbors.
Have few friends, many acquaintances.
Have no friends not equal to yourself.
Have patience with a friend rather than lose him forever.
He is a friend that sticks closer than a brother.
He is my friend that helps me, and not he that pities me.
He is no friend who plays double.
He makes no friends who never made a foe.
He never was a friend who has ceased to be one.
He that has a thousand friends has not a friend to spare.
He that is neither one thing nor the other has no friends.
He who asks more of a friend than he can bestow deserves to be refused.
He who despises a humble friend may be doing an ill turn to himself.
He who has many friends has no friends.
He who is no friend to the good cause is no friend of mine.
He who is true to one friend thus proves himself worthy of many.
He who makes us do what we can is a friend.
He who would have friends must show himself friendly.
He's my friend who speaks well behind my back.
Hold a true friend with both hands.
I cannot be your friend and your flatterer, too.
If you have one true friend, you have more than your share.
If you impose on your friends, you will wear out your welcome.
If you want a friend, you will have to be one.
If you want to keep a friend, never borrow, never lend.
If your friend is honey, do not lick him up altogether.
In time of prosperity, friends will be plenty; in time of adversity, not one in  twenty.
It is better to have a friend in the market than money in one's coffer.
It is better to have one friend of great value than to have many friends of little  value.
It is easier to visit friends than to live with them.
It is good to have some friends both in heaven and in hell.
It takes a year to make a friend.
It takes half of our lives to learn who our friends are and the other half to keep  them.
It takes years to make a friend, but minutes to lose one.
It's hard to make a friend but easy to make an enemy.
It's not lost, what a friend gets.
 Keep your friends constantly in repair.
Lend money, lose a friend.
Let your friends have their peculiarities.
Little friends sometimes prove to be big friends.
Make friends with the good if you wish to be like them.
Make new friends but keep the old.
Make no friends with an angry man.
Make not your friend too cheap to you, nor yourself too dear to him.
Man's best friend is his dog.
Many friends, few helpers.
My friends can do no wrong, and my enemies can do no right.
Never drop the friends you make on the way up; you may need them on the way  down.
Never trust a friend who deserts you in a pinch.
New friends are like silver, but old ones are like gold.
No doctor like a true friend.
No friend is like an old friend.
No man can be happy without a friend nor be sure of his friend until he is  happy.
Often we hold friends by holding our tongues.
Old friends are best.
One could live on next to nothing if one's friends could live on less.
One does not make friends; one recognizes them.
One old friend is better than two new ones.
One's best friend is his mirror.
Our friends are our mirrors and show us ourselves.
Procure not friends in haste, neither part with them in haste.
Real friends are few and far between.
Reprove your friend privately; commend him publicly.
Show me your friends, and I'll tell you what you are.
Speak well of your friends; of your enemies say nothing.
Take a friend for what he does, a wife for what she has, and goods for what they  are worth.
The best of friends must part.
The best of friends wear out with wrong use.
The best way to keep a friend is not to give him away.
The day I break my faith with friends, that day my right to friends ends.
The friends of the unlucky are far away.
The time to make friends is before you need them.
The way to gain a friend is to be one.
There is a lot of difference between friends and acquaintances.
There is quite a difference between making fast friends and making friends fast.
There's forever something new to be found in friends.
They are rich who have friends.
Think twice before you speak to a friend in need.
Those who betray their friends must not expect others to keep faith with them.
Thoughtless friends are often a nuisance.
Three faithful friends: an old wife, an old dog, and ready money.
To be a friend is to have a friend.
To get a friend, close one eye; to keep him, close both.
To have friends, never speak out of both sides of your mouth.
To lose a friend, advise him.
To see an old friend is as agreeable as a good meal.
True friends are like diamonds, precious and rare; false ones like autumn leaves,  found everywhere.
True friends, like ivy and the wall, both stand together and together fall.
True friends never run deep.
True friends share both the bad and the good.
Trust not a new friend nor an old enemy.
Try your friend before you trust him.
Value your friends above your opinions.
We love our friends in spite of, not because of.
We tax our friends with faults but see not our own.
When a friend asks, there is no tomorrow.
When friends meet, hearts warm.
When two friends have a common purse, one sings and the other weeps.
When you buy friends with anything other than friendship, they do not stay  bought long.
Who seeks a faultless friend rests friendless.
Without a friend the world is a wilderness.
You can't live without friends--and quite often you can't live with them.
You can't trust your best friend.
You cannot use your friends and have them too.
You love your friends despite their faults.
You may choose your friends; your family is thrust upon you.
You never know the value of friends until you lose them.
You will never have a friend if you must have one without faults.
Your best friend is your dollar.
Your best friend is yourself.
Friendliness is to do and say the kindest thing in the kindest way.
Friendly is as friendly does.
Be friendly and you will never want friends.
Being friendly doesn't cost anything.
A blazing friendship goes out in a flash.
A broken friendship may be soldered but will never be sound.
Flowers of true friendship never fade.
Friendship cannot stand all on one side.
Friendship is a magic weaver.
Friendship is a plant that one must often water.
Friendship is a silken tie which binds friends together.
Friendship is a two-way street.
Friendship is an empty word if it only works one way.
Friendship is like hand-painted china, expensive and rare: when broke it may be  mended, but the crack is always there.
Friendship is love with understanding.
Friendship is love without wings.
Friendship is not to be bought at a fair.
Friendship is to be worked at, not on.
Friendship, like persimmons, is good only when ripe.
Friendship often ends in love, but love in friendship never.
It's a poor friendship that needs to be constantly bought.
No friendship can survive the gift of gold.
Nothing spoils friendship sooner than exaggeration of friends.
Once a torn friendship, a patch can't be sewn.
Real friendship is a slow grower.
Soil and friendship must be cultivated.
Sudden friendship, sure repentance.
The essence of friendship is not getting, but sharing.
The only rose without thorns is friendship.
There are many kinds of fruit that grow on the tree of life, but none so sweet as  friendship.
There is no friendship without freedom, no freedom without the friendship of  brothers.
True friendship is a plant of slow growth.
Water your friendships as you water your flowerpots.
While you seek new friendships, cultivate the old.
With women, friendship ends when rivalry begins.
Better to be a big frog in a little pool than a little frog in a big pool.
Even a frog would bite if it had teeth.
Frogs do not croak in running water.
If frogs had wings, they wouldn't bump their asses on rocks.
It isn't the frog with the longest legs who can jump the farthest.
It's a poor frog who doesn't play with his own pond.
It's easy to make a frog jump into water when that's what he wants to do.
Set a frog on a golden stool, away it hops to reach the pool.
There is more than one frog in the puddle.
There's more than one way to kill a frog.
What goes under a frog's belly never goes over his back.
When a frog flies into a passion, the pond knows nothing of his tantrum.
You can't tell a frog by the size of his jump.
The frost hurts not the weeds.
The frost will bring the pig home.
They must hunger in frost that will not work in heat.
He gives little who gives much with a frown; he gives much who gives little  with a smile.
Frugality is a fair fortune, and industry a good estate.
Frugality is the mother of all the virtues.
Frugality when all is spent comes too late.
Without frugality none can be rich, and with it, few would be poor.
 Better the fruit lost than the tree.
By their fruits you shall know them.
Domestic fruit will not grow on a wild tree.
Forbidden fruit is the sweetest.
Fruit is silver in the morning, gold at noon, and lead at night.
He that would have the fruit must climb the tree.
If you would enjoy its fruit, pluck not the blossom.
The best fruit is on top of the tree.
The fruit doesn't fall far from the tree.
The fruit of a good tree is also good.
The redder the fruit, the higher it hangs.
The weakest fruit drops earliest to the ground.
When the fruit fails, welcome haws.
You can't eat the fruit while the tree is in blossom.
You can't force a fruit to ripen by beating it with a stick.
Don't jump from the frying pan into the fire.
If you hold the frying pan, don't blame it if you burn yourself.
The full do not believe the hungry.
He that is full of himself is empty.
It's hard to carry a full cup.
What isn't full won't yell.
All fun is gone when left alone.
Always stop to think whether your fun will cause another's unhappiness.
Everything that's fun is either illegal, immoral, or fattening.
Have fun in this life: you'll never get out of it alive.
Have fun while you are young.
It is fun to be fooled, but better to know.
There ain't much fun in physics, but there's a great deal of physics in fun.
Everything is funny as long as it happens to someone else.
The furnace that hardens clay will melt gold.
The best furniture in the house is a virtuous woman.
They don't put marble tops on cheap furniture.
Crooked furrows grow straight grain.
Plow your furrows deep while sluggards sleep, and you shall have corn to sell  and to keep.
To plow a straight furrow, never look back.
Beware the fury of a patient man.
Fury is armed with its own madness.
There is no fury like a woman's fury.
Can't have a family fuss without the whole town knowing about it.
It takes two to make a fuss.
A man without thought of the future must soon have present sorrow.
Don't mortgage the future for the present.
Fear not the future: weep not for the past.
Invest in the future.
Look to the future and you will always look up.
Never think of the future; it comes soon enough.
No one can walk backwards into the future.
One can never tell what the future will bring.
Planning your future saves you from regretting your past.
The future becomes the present if we fight for it.
The future belongs to those who prepare for it.
The future gains from present pains.
The future is a sealed book.
The future of a child is the work of the mother.
The future takes care of itself.
The man who has no future loses his grip on the present.
There is no future like the present.
What the future has in store for you depends in large measure on what you have  in store for the future.
When all else is lost, the future still remains.
You can never plan the future by the past.
A small gain is worth more than a large promise.
An evil gain is equal to a loss.
Every gain must have a loss.
Gain bends one's better judgment.
Gain cannot be made without some other person's loss.
Gain is temporary and uncertain, but expense is constant and certain.
Great gains are not won except by great risks.
Hope of gain lessens pain.
Ill-gotten gain is no gain at all.
Ill-gotten gain never does anyone any good.
Ill-gotten gains are soon lost.
Light gains make a heavy purse.
Little gain, little pain.
One who does everything for gain does nothing for good.
Only that which is honestly got is gain.
The chase of gain is rich in hate.
There are no gains without pains.
Not what I gain, but what I lose.
No one ought to be a gainer by his own wrongdoing.
Don't criticize a man's gait until you are in his shoes.
It's not the gale but the set of the sail that determines the way you go.
The gallant man needs no drums to rouse him.
A gambler picks his own pocket.
All players can't win; no gambler wins in the end.
The best gambler is the man who doesn't gamble.
You can tell a gambler by his chips.
Young gambler--old beggar.
Gambling is getting nothing for something.
Gambling is the son of avarice and the father of despair.
A game is not won until it has been played.
Be game, but not everybody's.
First game's a kid's game.
If he calls it a silly and childish game, that means his wife can beat him at it.
It's a great game if you don't weaken.
The game's not over until the last man strikes out.
The same game does not often succeed twice.
You can't beat a man at his own game.
You might as well have the game as the name.
You cannot kill game by looking at it.
Gamesters and racers never last long.
As is the gander, so is the goose.
Garbage in, garbage out.
 A good garden always has weeds.
As is the garden, such is the gardener.
Every man should cultivate his own garden.
In the garden more grows than the garden shows.
Make a garden or plant, and a man is happy for life.
Plant your garden in the ground and not in the moon.
Sadness is a wall between two gardens.
The market is the best garden.
The soul of a man is a garden where, as he sows, so shall he reap.
Weed your own garden first.
All gardeners know better than other gardeners.
It is not enough for a gardener to love flowers; he must also hate weeds.
Borrowed garments never fit.
Never sew a new patch on an old garment.
Worn-out garments have the newest patches.
You must cut your garment according to the cloth.
Gasoline and whiskey usually mix with blood on the highway.
A squeaking gate hangs the longest.
Always swing on your own gate.
An open gate lets stock out.
Don't swing on the same gate too long.
If you don't like my gate, don't swing on it.
No use to close the gate after the horse is gone.
Closely gathered, widely scattered.
A close gathering gets a wide scattering.
The smaller the gathering, the greater the joy.
Be gay today, for tomorrow you may die.
Little gear, less care.
A gem is not polished without rubbing, nor is a man perfect without trials.
Don't value a gem by its setting.
Fairest gems lie deepest.
Generals die in bed.
It is the part of a good general to talk of success, not of failure.
A generalizer is a man who learns less and less about more and more until he  knows nothing about everything.
Generations grow weaker and wiser.
It takes three generations to make a gentleman.
One generation comes, another passes, but the world goes on forever.
Broad is the shadow of generosity.
Generosity is catching: you are generous if your neighbor is generous.
Generosity is more charitable than wealth.
Generosity is the flower of justice.
Generosity never impoverished a man, nor robbery enriched him, nor prosperity  made him wise.
Our generosity should never exceed our abilities.
The quickest generosity is the best.
True generosity is the ability to accept ingratitude.
The generous can forget they have given, but the grateful can never forget that  they have received.
The generous is always just, and the just is always generous.
Folks is mighty generous wid money what dey ain't got.
It is easier to be generous than grateful.
The generous man receives more than he gives.
A genius does not shout his wisdom from the housetops.
A genius is born, not made.
A great genius will sincerely acknowledge his defects.
Genius begins great works; labor alone finishes them.
Genius does what it must; talent, what it may.
Genius is akin to madness.
Genius is one percent inspiration, ninetynine percent perspiration.
Genius is the capacity for taking infinite pains.
Genius without education is like silver in the mine.
Men of genius often bring great misery to the world.
Where genius, wealth, and strength fail perseverance will succeed.
Gentility without ability is worse than beggary.
A gentleman is broad and fair; the vulgar are biased and petty.
A gentleman never makes any noise.
Gentlemen cherish worth; the vulgar cherish dirt.
Gentlemen prefer blondes.
He is the best gentleman who is the son of his own deserts.
It always pays to be a gentleman.
Once a gentleman, always a gentleman.
Gentleness and kindness conquer at last.
Gentleness often disarms the fierce and melts the stubborn.
Once a German, always a German.
Get justly, use soberly, distribute cheerfully, and live contentedly.
Get what you can, and what you get, hold; 'tis the stone that will turn all your  lead into gold.
Ill got, ill spent.
Since we cannot get what we like, let us like what we can get.
Some guys got it, and some guys ain't got it.
Soon got, soon spent.
What you can't get is just what suits you.
What you want, you can't get--what you can get the devil wouldn't have.
You get out of the world just what you put into it.
You get what you pay for.
You get what you try for.
Get it while the getting's good.
Getting on is largely a matter of getting up each time you are knocked down.
A gift is better than a promise.
A gift long waited for is sold, not given.
A gift today is a treasure tomorrow.
A gift with a kind word is a double gift.
A man's gift makes room for him.
A small gift usually gets small thanks.
Be slow to take a gift: most men give to be paid back.
Every man loves a man who gives gifts.
It's not the gift that counts, but the thought behind it.
Life's greatest gift: a year of time.
Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.
The gift bringer always finds an open door.
The gift of an enemy is no better than an injury.
The gift without the giver is bare.
 A girl with cotton stockings never sees a mouse.
A girl worth kissing is not easily kissed.
A good girl always gets caught; a bad girl knows how to avoid it.
A whistling girl and a crowing hen always end in the devil's den.
All are good girls, but where do the bad wives come from? Rec.
Any girl can handle the beast in a man if she's cagey enough.
Don't marry a girl who wants strawberries in January.
Every girl has her day.
Every girl is beautiful in her father's eyes.
Girls will be girls.
It is as easy to love a rich girl as a poor one.
Kissing a girl for the first time is like getting the first olive from a jar: after the  first one, they come rolling out.
Men seldom make passes at girls who wear glasses.
Nothing will ruin an interesting intellectual conversation any quicker than the  arrival of a pretty girl.
One girl is a girl, two girls are half a girl, and three girls are no girl at all.
The first girl up in the morning is the best-dressed girl that day.
The girl that thinks no man is good enough for her is right, but she's left.
The more a girl runs, the harder a boy chases.
The whisper of a pretty girl can be heard further than the roar of a lion.
When a girl whistles, the angels cry.
When you get one girl you better try two, cause there ain't no telling what one'll  do.
You can take the girl out of the country, but you can't take the country out of the  girl.
Our girlhood determines our womanhood.
Better to give than lend.
Give a little, take a little.
Give and you shall receive.
He gives twice who gives promptly.
He who gives is twice blessed.
He who gives twice gives without hesitation.
It is better to give than to receive.
It is not only what we give but how we give it that counts.
Let him who gives nothing be silent, and him who receives speak.
Not what we give, but what we share makes us great.
They who give willingly love to give quickly.
We give and grow.
You can't give what you haven't got.
The Lord loves the cheerful giver.
Giving is an honor.
Some are always giving; others are always taking.
Twice glad--when you come and when you go.
A man of gladness seldom falls into madness.
Happiness comes from gladness as light from the sun.
There is gladness in remembrance.
A looking glass never tells a woman she is homely.
A woman who looks much in the glass spins but little.
Glass, china, and reputations are easily cracked and never well mended.
Half a glass is better than none.
He that has a head of glass must not throw stones at another.
People who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones.
Glasses and lasses are brittle ware.
He pays for the glasses who breaks them.
Men seldom make passes at girls who wear glasses.
People who wear glasses shouldn't have too long a nose.
Through rose colored glasses the world is always bright.
No man e'er was glorious who was not laborious.
Glory is a poison, good to be taken in small doses.
Glory is the fair child of peril.
Glory paid to our ashes comes too late.
Hasty glory goes out in a snuff.
Mean men admire wealth, great men seek true glory.
No flowery road leads to glory.
Our greatest glory consists not in never falling, but in rising every time we fall.
Real glory springs from the silent conquest of ourselves.
Seldom comes glory till a man is dead.
The desire for glory is the torch of the mind.
The paths of glory lead to the grave.
The smoke of glory is not worth the smoke of a pipe.
Unless what we do is useful, our glory is vain.
We rise in glory as we sink in pride.
When glory comes, memory departs.
While you glory in the past, be busy in the present lest you be caught  unprepared in the future.
A clean glove often hides a dirty hand.
If the glove fits, wear it.
The steel glove under the silken glove.
Glowworms are not lanterns.
The glutton is born merely for the purpose of digestion.
The glutton's god is his belly, and his glory is his shame.
Gluttony kills more than the sword.
Gluttony makes the body sting as well as the pocket.
The gnat is small, to be sure, but she is not the servant of the cow.
Go farther and fare worse.
Go it while you're young.
If you can't go over or under, go through.
If you want a thing done, go; if not, send.
Not to go forwards is to go backwards.
Tell me with whom you go, and I'll tell you what you are.
Do not turn back when you are just at the goal.
A lame goat takes no siesta.
An old goat is never the more revered for his beard.
Don't mistake an old goat for a preacher because of his beard.
If the goat would not jump around, she wouldn't break her leg.
No goat ever died of hunger.
God aids him who changes.
God builds a nest for the blind bird.
God fits the back to its burden.
God grips but does not choke.
God heals and the doctor takes the fee.
God help the rich, for the poor can beg.
God helps those who help themselves.
God is always opening his hand.
God is no respecter of persons.
God loves the cheerful giver.
God made the cities, but the devil himself made the small towns.
God made the country, and man made the town.
God never sends mouths but he sends meat.
God promises a safe landing, but not a calm passage.
God puts food into clean hands.
God restores health, and the physician gets the thanks.
God sends every bird its food, but he does not throw it into the nest.
God sends meat, and the devil sends cooks.
God's mill grinds slowly, but it grinds exceedingly fine.
God tempers the wind to the shorn lamb.
He who leaves God out of his reckoning does not know how to count.
Nothing with God is accidental.
One with God is a majority.
Pray to God, but keep hammering.
Trust in God and do something.
Where God has a church, the devil has a chapel.
Who trusts in God builds well.
Even a god, falling in love, could not be wise.
Whom the gods love die young.
Whom the gods would destroy they first make mad.
A man may buy gold too dear.
All that glitters is not gold.
An inch of gold cannot buy an inch of time.
Before gold even kings take off their hats.
Better whole than patched with gold.
Even if it rained gold, a lover would never become rich.
Gold and iron are good to buy gold and iron.
Gold dust blinds all eyes.
Gold is an unseen tyrant.
Gold is proven by touch.
Gold is tested by fire, men by gold.
Gold is the devil's fishhook.
Gold is the most useless metal in the world, for it is good for plugging teeth and  tormenting fools.
Gold is the snare of the soul.
Gold is wealth in fancy only.
Gold is where you find it.
Gold must be tried by fire.
Gold rules the world.
Gold will not buy everything.
Gold, women, and linen should be chosen by daylight.
He that can catch and hold, he is the man of gold.
He that has no gold in his purse should have silver on his tongue.
In misfortune, gold is dull; in happiness iron is bright.
It is gold that greases the wheel of love.
Like liberty, gold never stays where it is undervalued.
Old woman's gold is not ugly.
When gold speaks, other tongues are dumb.
When gold speaks, everyone is silent.
When we have gold, we are in fear; when we have more, we are in danger.
Where there is gold, there is wealth.
Where there is gold, there the devil dwells.
A golden key opens every door-except that of heaven.
Gone but not forgotten.
All good comes to an end except the goodness of God.
All things work together for good for those who love God.
Any good that we do should be done now, for we pass this way but once.
As often as we do good, we sacrifice.
Associate with the good and you will be one of them.
Better do little good than a great deal bad.
Certain good should never be relinquished for uncertain hopes.
Do good by stealth and blush to find it fame.
Do no good and you shall find no evil.
Good and quickly seldom meet.
Good, better, best: never let it rest until your good is better and your better best.
Good comes to some while they are sleeping.
Good is recognized when it goes, and evil when it comes.
Good that comes too late is good as nothing.
He injures the good who spares the bad.
He that worked for the good of others will be honored and loved.
If you can't say something good about someone, don't say anything at all.
If you want to win, return good for evil.
It's amazing how much good you can do if you don't care who gets the credit.
It's never too late to do good.
Never pour good after bad.
No good or evil can last a lifetime.
One never did repent of doing good.
The good die young.
The good that is, is better than the good that was.
The good that men do lives after them.
The good you do is not lost, though you forget it.
The good you do to others will always come back to you.
There is no good that does not cost a price.
To do good is to be good.
You will never lose a turn by doing good.
A good man is seldom uneasy, an ill one never easy.
A man going on and thinking he's no good is no man at all.
A man is only as good as the worst on his team.
All are presumed good until they are found in a fault.
All good things come to those who wait.
All that looks good ain't.
Anything is good if your idea is good.
Be good and have fun; but if you're good, you'll not have fun.
Be good and you will be lonesome.
Be good; and if you can't be good, be careful.
Be not simply good; be good for something.
Being good is the mother of doing good.
By good nature half the misery of human life might be assauged.
Get good sense and you will not repine at the want of good luck.
Good men and bad men are each less so than they seem.
Good people are not always nice people.
Good things are seldom cheap.
Good things come in small packages.
Good things soon find a purchaser.
Hold fast to that which is good.
If they're good, they're not good-looking; if good-looking, they're not good.
If you're good, you're good and lonely.
'Tis more to be good than great; to be happy is better than wise.
Some people are so good that they are no good.
The good man can't be bribed: he is good for nothing.
There's good and bad in everything.
Too much of a good thing is worse than none at all.
What is good for one man may not be good for another.
What's good for one is good for another.
When you are good to others, you are best to yourself.
Everyone who says goodbye is not gone.
A man's goodness is his only greatness.
A real man is he whose goodness is a part of himself.
Do not neglect to perform acts of goodness just because they are little.
Goodness always enriches the possessor.
Goodness is the only investment that never fails.
There is no odor so bad as that which arises from goodness tainted.
A man has no more goods than he gets good by.
After you sell the goods, set down the charge before you put out the fire.
Don't put all your goods in your shop window.
Every man can be sold a bill of goods.
Good goods come in small packages.
Goods well bought are half sold.
Ill-gotten goods prosper not long.
Little goods, little care.
Sell your goods at market price; keep it not for rats and mice.
The best goods are the cheapest in the end.
When goods lie a long time, the price is forgotten.
Goodwill, like a good name, is won by many acts and lost by one.
Goodwill, like a good woman, is hard to get and easy to lose.
It's better to have the goodwill of a dog than not.
We cannot buy a quart of goodwill, a pound of love, or a yard of patience.
The goody-good is often good for nothing.
A setting goose has no feathers on her breast.
A setting goose never gets fat.
A wild goose never laid a tame egg.
All is well and the goose hangs high.
As the old goose yells, so yells the young goose.
Don't kill the goose that lays the golden egg.
Don't throw away anything a goose can swallow.
Every man thinks his own geese swans.
Feather by feather the silly goose is plucked.
For every goose there is a gander.
Geese eat all that is before them and kill all that is behind them.
If you cook your own goose, you will have to eat it.
Nothing cooks your goose quicker than a boiling temper.
Nothing is dumber than a goose.
The goose hangs high.
The goose is never cooked till the fire is hottest.
There is more than one way to cook a goose.
There's never a goose so old and gray but what a gander would wander her way.
What's good for the goose is good for the gander.
You can't fool a goose.
A gossip speaks ill of all and all of her.
Gossip is the lifeblood of society.
Gossip is vice enjoyed vicariously.
Gossip needs no carriage.
Gossips drink and talk; frogs drink and squawk.
Gossips have a keen sense of rumor.
The gossip's mouth costs her nothing, for she never opens it but at another's  expense.
Whoever gossips to you will gossip of you.
Gossiping and lying go together.
An empty gourd makes the most noise.
As soon as there are some to be governed, there are also some to govern.
Govern yourself and you'll be able to govern the world.
He is most powerful who governs himself.
He is unworthy to govern others who cannot govern himself.
The man who can govern a woman can govern a nation.
Those who can't govern themselves must be governed.
All free governments are party governments.
All governments depend on the goodwill of the people.
Government is the soul of society.
In rivers and bad government, the lightest things swim at the top.
Oppressive government is more to be feared than a tiger.
People get the government they deserve.
That government is best that serves man best.
That government is best which governs least.
The best government is that in which the law speaks instead of the lawyer.
The government tips when the people rise.
The less government we have, the better.
He is a governor that governs his passions, and he is a servant that serves them.
The gown is his that wears it, and the world his that enjoys it.
Grace is a charming sound.
There is no grace in a favor that sticks to the fingers.
Without grace beauty is an unbaited hook.
A gracious woman retains honor.
By the stubble you may guess the grain.
Don't lock the granary after the grain has been stolen.
Every grain is not a pearl.
Of evil grain no good seed can come.
Though one grain fills not the sack, it helps.
You can't raise grain by sowing grass.
It goes against the grain.
False grammar does not destroy a deed.
Grandchildren are the interest paid on the original investment.
What's good enough for grandfather is good enough for me.
Do not try to teach your grandmother how to suck eggs.
Sour grapes can never make sweet wine.
The sweetest grapes hang highest.
Winter grape sour whedder you kin reach 'im or not.
Grasp a little and you may secure it; grasp too much and you will lose  everything.
Grasp no more than the hand will hold.
A trodden path bears no grass.
Don't let any grass grow under your feet.
Every blade of grass has its share of the dews of heaven.
Grass doesn't grow on a busy street.
Grass never grows in a goose pasture.
Let not the grass grow on the path of friendship.
More rain, more grass.
Rip, roam while the grass is green.
The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence.
The grass is greenest where the waters lap the shore.
The nearer the ground the sweeter the grass.
Where everyone goes the grass never grows.
While the grass grows the horse starves.
Men who are grateful are usually good.
The grateful man gets more than he asks.
Gratefulness is the poor man's payment.
Don't overload gratitude, if you do, she'll kick.
Gratitude and greed do not go together.
Gratitude is a heavy burden.
Gratitude is a lively expectation of favors yet to come.
Gratitude is the memory of the heart.
Gratitude is the sign of noble souls.
Next to ingratitude, the most painful thing to bear is gratitude.
No gratitude from the wicked.
Of all the virtues, gratitude has the shortest memory.
He who digs a grave for another falls in himself.
Only in the grave is there rest.
The grave levels all distinctions.
The grave will receive us all.
When you die, even a grave is comfortable.
You dig your grave with your own hands.
You dig your grave with your teeth.
You have to go to the graveyard to locate guys free from fault.
Better de gravy dan no grease 'tall.
Gray hairs are honorable but old maids are abominable.
If you use a little elbow grease, you will get the job done right.
He who greases well drives well.
None think the great unhappy.
Resembling the great in some ways does not make us equally great.
The great are often selfish in their patronage of those who help them.
A great man is what he is because he was what he was.
Behind every great man there is a great woman.
Every great man is unique.
Great men are not always wise.
Great men never feel great; small men never feel small.
He who will be great among you, let him serve.
It's great to be great, but it's greater to be human.
No great man ever complains of want of opportunity.
No really great man thought himself so.
Nothing great was ever achieved without enthusiasm.
The great man makes the great thing.
The greatest men may ask a foolish question now and then.
There could be no great ones if there were no little ones.
'Tis in the mind all genuine greatness lies.
Greatness is nothing unless it be lasting.
If any man seek for greatness, let him forget greatness and seek truth.
Nothing is more simple than greatness; indeed, to be simple is to be great.
Small is the seed of every greatness.
Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust  upon them.
The first step to greatness is to be honest.
The less people speak of their greatness, the more we think of it.
True greatness is not in never falling but in rising when you fall.
Greed breeds contempt.
Greed killed the wolf.
Greed oft overreaches itself.
Greed often makes one poor.
Greed to need does surely lead.
The greedy never know when they have had enough.
Greedy folks have long arms.
Beware the Greeks bearing gifts.
When Greek meets Greek, then comes a tug of war.
The greyhound that starts many hares kills none.
Everyone can master a grief but he that has it.
Great griefs are mute.
Great griefs are the medicines for our lesser sorrows.
Grief can take care of itself, but to get the full value of joy you must have  somebody to divide it with.
Grief makes one hour ten.
Grief often treads upon the heels of pleasure.
Grief pent up will burst the heart.
New griefs awaken the old.
Patch grief with proverbs.
Secret griefs are the sharpest.
The only cure for grief is action.
There is a limit to grief but not to fear.
What's gone and what's past help should be past grief.
Yield not to grief.
A bad man may have a good grievance.
Conquer your grievances before they conquer you.
Grievances should be slept on before being aired.
A pleasant grin will let you in where a knocker was never known.
All is grist that goes to his mill.
No grist is ground with the water that is passed.
An ounce of grit is worth a pound of flesh.
A grouch is a man who thinks the world is against him--and it is.
Fly ten feet above ground and rest six feet under.
The nearer the ground, the sweeter the grass.
Letting grow and raising are different.
We grow like what we think, so let us think of the good, the true, and the  beautiful.
You will only grow when you are alone.
A grudge is the heaviest load one can carry.
Do not grudge others what you cannot enjoy yourself.
Grudge not another that which you cannot attain yourself.
The grumbler does not work; the worker does not grumble.
Grumbling makes the loaf no larger.
You can't take the grunt out of a pig.
The one who does the grunting seldom does the lifting.
A constant guest is never welcome.
A constant guest will wear out his welcome.
An unbidden guest knows not where to sit.
If you would leave guests merry with cheer, be so yourself, or so at least appear.
Show no preference among your guests.
Speed the parting guest.
The dinner over, away go the guests.
The unbidden guest is always a pest.
Unbidden guests are most welcome when they are gone.
Unbidden guests quickly outstay their welcome.
The guide of life is common sense.
Custom and practice may countenance guilt, but they cannot lessen it.
Guilt levels those whom it strains.
Guilt makes the bravest man a coward.
Guilt proves the hardest nearest home.
Guilty men see guilt written on the faces of saints.
He who denies his guilt doubles his guilt.
Secret guilt by silence is betrayed.
The guilt and not the gallows makes the shame of evil fellows.
Better ten guilty than one innocent suffer.
The guilty flee when no man pursues.
 A man cannot be declared guilty in his absence.
The guilty one always runs.
The jingle of the guinea heals the hurt that honor feels.
When a gull dives in the sea, there are fish for you and me.
Some people are born simply to tread on the gum that other people chew.
Better a loaded gun than a missed shot.
Beware the man with only one gun.
It is the unloaded gun that kills many.
 It's the empty gun that does the mischief.
Stick to your guns.
 When the guns bark, the law is silent.
 When your guns are few your words are few.
Mix gunpowder and alcohol, you won't be around long at all.
No guts, no glory.
It's not so bad to fall in the gutter, but it's worse to lay there.
 Do other guys before they do you.
 Some guys got it, and some guys ain't got it.
A habit is first cobwebs, then cables.
 It is a thousand times easier to contract a new habit than to get rid of an old  one.
The habit does not make the monk.
A hair on the head is worth two in the brush.
A man with no hair seems always to get the haircut.
A woman's hair is her crowning glory.
A woman's hair is long, but her tongue is longer.
Don't comb your hair if you are bald.
Don't wash your hair before you get the water.
Gray hairs are death's blossoms.
 Hair by hair the head grows bald.
 Hair never grows on a busy street.
 It is better to split hairs than split heads.
Little hair, much wit.
Long hair, little brains.
One hair of a woman draws more than a team of horses.
The hair of the dog is good for the bite.
The smallest hair throws its shadow.
You can't grow hair and brains in the same head.
You cannot pull hair where there is none.
Do nothing by halves.
Do what you do with all your might: things done half are never done right.
Half a glass is better than none.
Half a loaf is better than none.
Half is false of what you hear.
Never look at half-done work.
One half the world does not know how the other half lives.
The half is better than the whole.
When half-gods go, the gods arrive.
Don't believe half-truths.
Just the weak-minded, the idiot, and the half-wit can't.
Don't halloo till you're out of the woods.
A halo only has to fall a few inches to become a noose.
Halving your wants quadruples your wealth.
A large ham, a large hand.
An old anvil laughs at many broken hammers.
Heed the hammer: it keeps its head.
If you are going to use a hammer, build something.
A clean glove often hides a dirty hand.
A clean hand needs no washing.
A cold hand, a warm heart.
A little thing in hand is worth more than a great thing in prospect.
A person with a free hand is one who gives.
Always lend a helping hand.
Arm and money require good hands.
Blessed are the horned hands of toil.
Busy hands are happy hands.
Dirty hands make clean money.
Divine are many hands; cursed are many mouths.
Do the business at hand first.
Don't bite the hand that feeds you.
Don't stick out your hand further than you can draw it back.
Don't stick your hand in boiling water to see if it is hot.
Don't take your hand off the plow.
Empty hands allure no hawks.
Four hands can do more than two.
Hands off of someone else's man.
Have not only clean hands, but clean minds.
He becomes poor that deals with a slack hand, but the hand of diligence makes  rich.
He has three hands: a right hand, a left hand, and little behind hand.
He who hits himself with his own hands should not cry.
He who puts his hand to the plow should never look back.
Idle hands are the devil's tools.
If you have no hand, you can't make a fist.
It's the new hand who always gets the short-handled rake.
Kiss the hand you cannot bite.
Life ain't in holding a good hand but in playing a poor hand well.
Look up, not down; look out, not in; look forward, not back; and lend a hand.
Many hands make light work.
Many kiss the hand they wish to see cut off.
Never let your left hand know what your right hand is doing.
Never shake hands with a rattlesnake.
Nothing enters into a closed hand.
Nothing is impossible to a willing hand.
One hand is better than no hand at all.
One hand scatters what the other saves.
One hand washes the other.
Pretty hands are those that do.
Put your hand no farther than your sleeve will reach.
Scatter with one hand; gather with two.
Show me your hand and I'll tell you your trade.
The best place to find a helping hand is at the end of your arm.
The eye of the master does more than his hand.
The hand is quicker than the eye.
The hand of the diligent shall bear the rule.
The hand that gives, gathers.
The hand that rocks the cradle is the hand that rules the world.
The hands that lift the cup that cheers should not be used to shift the gears.
The hasty hand catches frogs for fish.
The man with the lazy hand has an empty mouth.
The night hand is slave to the left.
Tie a flying instructor's hands behind him and he couldn't say a word.
Too many hands in the pot make poor soup.
Too many hands spoil the pie.
Two hands are better than one.
When the hand ceases to scatter, the mouth ceases to praise.
When you get your hand in a bear's mouth, you'd better work easy until you get  it out.
White hands cannot hurt.
Your hand is never the worse for doing your own work.
You may know by the handful the whole sack.
A handkerchief dropped is worth two in the hand.
A handkerchief is a poor woman's purse.
Look for the handle when the pot's in the fire.
Puttin' a handle on the gourd don't make it no dipper.
Take things always by their smooth handle.
A handsaw is a good thing, but not to shave with.
A handsome man has something to start with.
Handsome is as handsome does.
Marry a handsome man and you marry trouble.
 Be handy as well as ornamental.
Keep a thing for seven years and it will come in handy.
All are not hanged that are condemned.
Better be half hanged than ill wed.
If you hang long enough, you get used to it.
Let us all hang together or hang separately.
Might as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb.
The man who's anxious to hang himself will always find a rope.
You can never hang a man if he is born to be drowned.
You can't hang a man for an idea.
Some hang out more'n they wash.
Many a good hanging prevents a bad marriage.
One can get used to everything--even hanging.
You can put a man to a better use than hanging him.
Some of us have the hap; some stick in the gap.
Nothin' don't happen till it takes place.
Nothing ever just happens; everything is caused.
Nothing happens from saying so.
Nothing merely happens: things are done.
What happens twice, happens thrice.
What has happened once can happen again.
What's going to happen will happen, and what isn't is liable to happen anyway.
What is to be will be, whether it ever happens or not.
What must happen will happen regardless.
Whatever happens, take it on the chest.
You can't guarantee tomorrow's happenings today.
All happiness is in the mind.
Blessed are the happiness makers.
Content is happiness.
Deepest happiness is for a short duration.
Happiness adds and multiplies as we divide it with others.
Happiness comes from gladness as light from the sun.
Happiness comes to those who give it.
Happiness goes on forever.
Happiness grows at our own firesides and is not to be picked in strangers'  gardens.
Happiness has no longings.
Happiness in this world, when it comes, comes incidentally.
Happiness is a butterfly.
Happiness is a form of courage.
Happiness is a good that nature sells us.
Happiness is a habit.
Happiness is a perfume that you cannot pour on others without spilling a little  on yourself.
Happiness is a wayside flower growing upon the highways of usefulness.
Happiness is for those who make it and not for those who search for it.
Happiness is like jam: you can't spread even a little without getting some on  yourself.
Happiness is more than riches.
Happiness is never found by pursuing it.
Happiness is not perfect until it is shared.
Happiness is the art of never holding in your mind the memory of any  unpleasant thing that has passed.
Happiness is the best reward.
Happiness is the true measure of success.
Happiness is to be sought not outside but within.
Happiness is what you make of it.
Happiness is where you find it.
Happiness makes health; health makes more happiness.
He who seeks only for applause from without has all his happiness in another's  keeping.
In happiness, iron is bright; in sadness, gold is dull.
It is neither wealth nor splendor, but tranquility and occupation, which give  happiness.
Learn, see, do something beautiful every day is a prescription for happiness.
May your sun of happiness never set.
Most of our happiness in this world consists in possessing what others can't get.
Much happiness is overlooked because it doesn't cost anything.
One does not appreciate happiness unless one has known sorrow.
One's chances for happiness are what he makes them.
Our happiness does not consist in things, but in thoughts.
Real happiness consists of peace of mind and heart.
Real happiness is found not in doing the things you like to do, but in liking the  things you have to do.
So long as we can lose any happiness we possess some.
The way to happiness is through tribulation.
There ain't no happiness in this world, so we must be happy without it.
There is more happiness in pursuit than possession.
To fill the hour--that is happiness.
True happiness consists of making others happy.
True happiness is in a contented mind.
We shall never gather happiness if we try to retain it for ourselves.
When things look blackest, happiness is often night around the corner.
Without virtue, happiness cannot be.
A happy husband is the happiest of men.
A happy man will also like his wife, though love may long have passed.
A poor man can't be happy because a happy man is never poor.
Call no man happy till he is dead.
Call not him the happiest who is the richest.
Happy is he who is content.
Happy is he who is simple.
Happy is he who limits his wants to his necessities.
Happy is the bride the sun shines on.
Happy is the man that finds wisdom and that gets understanding.
Happy is the man who has a hobby.
Happy men shall have many friends.
Happy's the wooing that's not long adoing.
He is happiest, be he peasant or king, who finds peace in his home.
He is happy who wants what he has.
He is truly happy who makes others happy.
If you want to be happy, make yourself useful.
It's better to be happy than wise.
Man was never so happy as when he was doing something.
No man is ever happy unless he thinks himself so.
One is happy when one is satisfied with one's self.
People are not always feeling their pulse to see if they are happy.
The happiest person is the person who thinks the most interesting thoughts.
The happiest place in the world to live is within one's income.
The man with peace of mind is blissfully happy.
There is not a happy home on earth but stands on faith.
To be happy is to be healthy.
To be happy, make yourself necessary to somebody.
Whoever is tired of a happy day, let him take a wife.
You're truly happy if you make others happy.
 Don't take it so hard--it might not all be so.
It is hard to kick against the pricks.
Nothing's so hard but search will find it out.
One hard word brings another.
The hard word cuts the heart.
The worst of all policies in hard times is to sit down and fold your hands.
'Tis hard to carry a full cup even.
To work hard, live hard, die hard, and go to hell after all would be hard indeed.
What is hard to bear is sweet to remember.
When hard times come in at the door, love goes out at the window.
A hare is not caught with a drum.
Don't think to hunt two hares with one dog.
First catch your hare before you skin it.
He who chases two hares catches neither.
If the hare is to be caught, it must not stay too far ahead of the hound.
The timid hare dares to pluck the dead lion by the beard.
A person can do himself more harm than others.
Harm watch, harm catch.
He who does harm should expect harm.
Keep out of harm's way.
No harm in trying.
There is no harm in asking.
Harmony is often obtained by playing second fiddle.
Harmony seldom makes a headline.
Before you go in double harness, look well to the other horse.
The higher up in the world a man is, the less good harness he puts on.
Good harvests make men prodigal, bad ones provident.
Man who wants a good harvest will not sow bad seed.
Pray to God for a good harvest, but continue to hoe.
Work hard in harvest time.
It is better to be a has-been than a never-was.
Great haste is not always good spent.
Haste is slow.
Haste makes waste.
Haste makes waste, and waste makes want.
Haste may trip up its own heels.
 Haste not, rest not.
I am always in haste, but never in a hurry.
Make haste but do not hurry.
Make haste slowly.
Make haste while the sun shines.
More haste, worse speed.
A hasty man is seldom out of trouble.
Be not too hasty to outbid others.
Hasty climbers have sudden falls.
The hasty hand catches frogs for fish.
A broad hat does not always cover a venerable head.
A hat will never be worn without a head.
Don't talk through your hat.
It's the life of an old hat to cock it.
Let one hat cover one face.
What counts most is what you've got under your hat.
Do not use a hatchet to remove a fly from your friend's forehead.
Nobody ever forgets where he buried a hatchet.
Hate from hate is sure to grow.
Hate is a burning fire that may consume the one who hates.
Hate likely turns to love.
Hate twins to love.
The greatest hate comes from the greatest love.
There is no medicine for hate.
He who hates is lost.
If you hate a man, eat his bread; and if you love him, do the same.
If you hate a man, let him live.
It does not matter what a man hates provided he hates something.
Men always hate most what they envy most.
Men hate where they hurt.
There are few who would rather be hated than laughed at.
We hate those whom we have wronged.
You may hate the things a person does, but never hate the person.
Hatred is blind, as well as love.
Hatred stirs up strife.
He that hides hatred with lying lips and he that utters slander is a fool.
The hatred of the nearest relatives is the most bitter.
Never be haughty to the humble; never be humble to the haughty.
Better to have than to hold.
Better to have than to wish.
It is better to have it and not need it than to need it and not have it.
It is better to have what you cannot love than love what you cannot have.
It's not what you have but how you use it.
It's not what you have in life that counts, but what you are.
Them as has, gits.
Those that have must lose.
To him who has shall be given.
We would be better off to have than to have coming.
Who has not, is not.
The more we have, the more we want; the more we want, the less we have.
Anything worth having is never gotten on a flowery bed of ease.
Anything worth having is worth keeping.
If it is worth having, it is worth working for.
Make hay while the sun shines.
People who live in hay houses shouldn't throw pitchforks.
You can't make hay where the grass won't grow.
One must see a hazard to avoid it.
He yesterday, I today.
A bald head is soon shaven.
A bald head needs a new wig.
A big head has a big ache.
A good head does not want for hats.
A head that is as hard as rock will burst into pieces.
A spur in the head is worth two in the heels.
A steady head means a good job.
All too often the only thing time does to the head is to make it whiter and  smoother.
Better be the head of an ass than the tail of a horse.
Big head, little sense.
Don't cut off your head with your tongue.
Don't lose your head; count first to ten.
Empty heads talk the loudest.
Haud your head up and ye'll no stumble.
He that has a head of glass must not throw stones at another.
He that has a head of wax must not walk in the sun.
Hold up your head even if your tail does drag in the mud.
Hold your head up if you do die hard.
If you're right, you don't need to lose your head; and if you're wrong, you can't  afford to.
If you don't use your head, you must use your legs.
If you lose your head, hold your tongue.
If you put nothing in your head, you will get nothing from it.
It makes little difference what's on the outside of your head if there's something  on the inside.
It takes a level head to win.
Keep your head high and your nose clean.
Keep your head out of the clouds.
Let your head save your heels.
Never comb a bald head.
One good head is better than a thousand strong hands.
Small head, big ideas.
So many heads, so many wits.
Some have no heads, but all have hearts.
Stand on your head and the world will be upside down.
Still head, wise heart.
The bigger a man's head gets, the easier it is to fill his shoes.
The stoutest head bears longest out.
There's no head like an old head.
There is no putting old heads on young shoulders.
To a wise head, two or three words.
Two heads are better than one.
Two heads are better than one, even if one is a cabbage head.
Two heads are better than one if one is deceitful.
Use your head for something besides a hat rack.
We have heads on us for the same reason pins do--to keep us from going too  far.
We have heads to get money and hearts to spend it.
Weak heads are often headstrong.
What you haven't got in your head, you have in your feet.
What your head forgets, your heels must remember.
When you can step on your head, it's time to go home.
You mustn't expect a man's head on a boy's shoulders.
Your own head--your own success or failure.
To ease another's headache is to forget one's own.
Before healing others, heal yourself.
One is not so soon healed as hurt.
A man too busy to take care of his health is like a mechanic too busy to take  care of his tools.
A nation's health is a nation's wealth.
Find health better than gold.
Folks spend their health to acquire wealth and later spend their wealth in an  effort to regain their health.
Give me my health and take my wealth.
Good health and good sense are two of life's greatest blessings.
Good health is priceless.
He who has health has hope, and he who has hope has everything.
Health and money go far.
Health is a call loan.
Health is not valued till sickness comes.
Health is the first muse.
Health is wealth.
Health is worth more than learning.
If you lack health you lack everything.
It is better to lose health like a spendthrift than to hoard it like a miser.
It is easy for a man in health to preach patience to the sick.
 Some folks enjoy poor health.
We are not so sensible of the greatest health as of the least sickness.
We drink one another's health and spoil our own.
Without health no one is rich.
Add little to little and there will be a great heap.
Gently to hear, kindly to judge.
He that can't hear must feel.
Hear all and say nothing.
Hear and be just.
Hear first and speak afterwards.
Hear much, speak little.
Hear, see, and be silent.
Hear twice before you speak once.
If you heard, then heed.
One hears only what he understands.
To hear is to obey.
What you don't hear will not hurt you.
What you hear never sounds half so important as what you overhear.
You never hear the one that gets you.
Bad hearing makes bad rehearsing.
Be silent or speak something worth hearing.
It is hard to keep from hearing what you don't want to.
A big heart is better than a big house.
A blithe heart makes a blooming visage.
A broken heart is like broken china: we can mend it, but we can never erase the  scars.
A broken heart mends quickly when repaired.
A cheerful heart is good medicine, but a broken spirit dries up the bones.
 A gentle heart is tied with an easy thread.
A good cause makes a stout heart and a strong arm.
A good heart cannot lie.
A great heart is never proud.
A heart without love is a violin without strings.
A kind heart is a fountain of gladness.
 A light heart lives long.
A light heart makes light work.
A little man may have a large heart.
A loving heart is better and stronger than wisdom.
A man's heart at thirty is either steeled or broken.
A merry heart does good like a medicine.
A merry heart goes all the day.
A merry heart makes a cheerful countenance.
A selfish heart desires love for itself; a Christian heart delights to love without  return.
A sinful heart makes a feeble hand.
A sound heart is the life of the flesh, but envy the rottenness of the bones.
A stout heart crushes ill luck.
A thankful heart is not only the greatest virtue but the parent of all other virtues.
A willing heart carries a weary pair of feet a long way.
All things are false and yet the heart is true.
An evil heart can make any doctrine heretical.
An honest heart being the first blessing, a knowing head is the second.
As a man thinks in his heart, so is he.
Brave hearts are tender hearts.
Don' take no mo' tuh yo' haht dan yuh kin kick often yo' heels.
Don't use your heart for a cash register.
Don't wear your heart on your sleeve.
Every heart has its own ache.
Faint heart never won fair lady.
Have you wealth or have you none, if you lose heart all is gone.
He that puts trust in his own heart is a fool.
Hearts don't break, they bend and wither.
Hearts may agree, though heads differ.
His heart cannot be pure whose tongue is not clean.
Home-keeping hearts are happiest.
Hope springs eternal in the human heart.
Humble hearts have humble desires.
If the heart is right, the head can't be very far wrong.
If your heart falls you, climb not at all.
In whose heart there is no song, to him the miles are many and long.
It's a poor heart that never rejoices.
Kind hearts are more than coronets.
Kind hearts are soonest wronged.
Kind hearts are the gardens, kind thoughts the roots, kind words the flowers,  kind deeds the fruits.
Let not your heart with cares be filled, for care has many a victim killed.
Let your heart keep pure and the world will, too.
Let your heart rule your head in matters of affection.
Light of heart, light of feet.
Little is much if the heart be but turned toward heaven.
 Loving hearts find peace in love; clever heads find profit in it.
Many a heart is caught on the rebound.
Many a kind heart beats under a rugged extenor.
Nearest the heart comes first out.
Nobody dies of a broken heart.
Out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks.
Some people will put heart into a stone image.
Temptation is the fire that brings up the scum of the heart.
The heart has arguments with which the understanding is unacquainted.
The heart has eyes that the brain knows nothing of.
The heart has its reasons.
The heart has no wrinkles.
The heart is the eyes--you must look there.
The heart knows its own bitterness.
The heart of a fool is in his mouth, but the mouth of a wise man is in his heart.
The heart that loves is always young.
The mother's heart is the child's schoolroom.
The prayerful heart is the happy heart.
The quickest way to a man's heart is through his stomach.
The way to a man's heart is through his ego.
To a brave heart, nothing is impossible.
To a young heart, everything is fun.
To live in hearts we leave behind is not to die.
Two hearts can live cheaper than one.
Two hearts never beat the same.
What the eye does not see, the heart does not feel.
What the heart thinks, the tongue speaks.
What you wear in your heart shows in your face.
When the heart is afire, some sparks will fly out through the mouth.
When you let your heart show, people are apt to kick it around.
Where the heart is past hope, the face is past shame.
Where the heart is, there will your treasure be also.
You are nearer God's heart in a garden than anywhere else on earth.
A hearth is not a hearth unless a woman sits by it.
After great heat comes cold.
 Better once in heaven than ten times at the gate.
Everybody that talks about heaven ain't going there.
Heaven helps those that help themselves.
Heaven is a place prepared for those prepared for it.
Heaven is above all.
Heaven is at the feet of mothers.
Heaven isn't in the next hollow.
Heaven keeps them who keep themselves.
Heaven protects the good man.
Heaven sends us good meat, but the devil sends cooks.
Heaven will mend all.
Heaven-sent men never fail.
One path to heaven is to get home by eleven.
Some people are too mean for heaven and too good for hell.
 Tears are often the telescope through which men see far into heaven.
The blue of heaven is larger than the clouds.
The will of heaven is mysterious and not easily discovered.
Those who know all about heaven seldom get there.
A hedge between keeps fellowship green.
A low hedge is easily leaped over.
Hedges have eyes, and walls have ears.
Where the hedge is lowest, everyone, including the devil, leaps over.
Where the hedge is thin, men will see through it.
Without a hedge a vineyard is laid waste.
 Pay no heed to the people who say one thing and mean another.
Take heed when you see no need of taking heed.
Take heed will surely speed.
When you think you stand, take heed: you may fall.
Who has glass windows must take heed not to throw stones.
Many are lighter in the heels than in the heart.
Never take more on your heels than you can kick off with your toes.
Trust not a horse's heel or a dog's tooth.
You can't count the heifer 'fore she's born.
People often grow in height at the expense of their brains.
Without climbing mountains, no one can know the height of heaven.
All heirs to some six feet of sod are equal in the world at last.
Land was never lost for want of an heir.
Do not marry an heiress unless her father has been hanged.
Hell and high water wait for no man.
Hell if you do, hell if you don't.
Hell is full of good meanings, but heaven is full of good works.
Hell is full of sorry people.
 Hell is never full: there is always room for one more.
Hell's only half full.
Hell is populated with the victims of harmless amusements.
Hell is truth seen too late.
 Hell is where heaven ain't.
Hell knows no wrath like a woman scorned.
It is better to be in hell than in the newspapers.
It's sure hell to be broke.
People in hell want ice water, too.
Some people tell us there ain't no hell, but they never farmed, so how can they  tell.
The hell of women is old age.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
The road to hell is very wide.
There's no sense you going to hell just because someone else is.
Until hell is full, no lawyer can be saved.
You go to hell for lying the same as stealing.
Anyone can hold the helm when the sea is calm.
The safest helmet is virtue.
 A little help is worth a lot of pity.
An ounce of help is worth a pound of pity.
Help is fine till it comes to dine.
Help never comes too late.
Self-help is the best help.
Slow help is no help.
Small helps are not despised.
 The more the help, the lighter the work.
There's no help for misfortune but to marry again.
To ask for free help is to spoil the millionaires.
 Help others as they help you.
Help yourself and heaven will help you.
If you can't help, don't hinder.
If you don't help yourself, nobody will.
If you help everybody, you help nobody.
If you would have many to help you, be sure not to need them.
Three helping each other is as good as six.
What can't be helped must be endured.
You always help yourself by helping others.
A black hen always lays a white egg.
A cackling hen doesn't always lay.
A crowing hen never lays eggs.
A good hen does not cackle in your house and lay in another's.
 A hen is the only animal that can lay around and make money.
A hen that doesn't cackle doesn't lay.
A hen will always go home to roost.
A hen with biddies never burst her craw.
A setting hen gathers no feathers.
A setting hen never gets fat.
An old hen never grows young.
Fat hens lay few eggs.
Fat hens make rich soup.
First hen cackled, first hen laid.
It's a poor hen that can't scratch for itself.
It is a sad house where the hen crows louder than the cock.
It's better to be the beak of a hen than the tail of an ox.
Nothing can sit still and make a profit except a hen.
Remember, a hen can scratch for a dozen chicks as easily as for one.
Settin' hens don't hanker after fresh aigs.
There's more ways to kill a hen besides choking her.
'Tis not the hen that cackles most that lays the most eggs.
Where the hen scratches, there she expects to find a bug.
No herb will cure love.
Here today and gone tomorrow.
The hermit has known many men and has therefore fled to the woods.
The hermit thinks the sun shines nowhere but in his own cell.
A wicked hero will turn his back to an innocent coward.
Heroes are brave for just five minutes longer.
Heroes are made, not born.
Heroes today, bums tomorrow.
No man is a hero to his valet.
One cannot always be a hero, but one can always be a man.
There's only a hair's breadth between a hero and a fool.
Don't cry herrings till they are in the net.
He who hesitates in the case of truth acts ill when he deliberates.
He who hesitates is last.
He who hesitates is lost.
He who hesitates is sometimes saved.
Hesitation seldom prospers.
Hew to the line; let the chips fall where they may.
There is nothing hidden that is not shown.
 Each must carry his own hide to the tanner.
Let the tail go with the hide.
He who hides behind another does not saddle when he pleases.
Hide nothing from your minister, physician, and lawyer.
Them that hides can find.
Hiders are good finders.
 It is hard to be high and humble.
Seize what is highest and you will possess what is in between.
 The higher they go, the lower they fall.
The sweetest grapes hang highest.
The happy highway, though never straight, is often scenic.
The highway is never about.
An overdose of hilarity does no one any good.
Hilarity is a poor substitute for living heroically.
Don't climb the hill until you get to it.
Don't waste time looking at the hill-climb it.
Hills look green far away.
Looking at a hill won't move it.
No hill too steep, no sand too deep.
There is no hill without a valley.
To climb steep hills requires slow pace at first.
All hillbillies don't live in the hills.
He that conquers himself conquers an enemy.
He who is all for himself is often all by himself Rec.
He who reigns within himself is more than a king.
The man who does not know himself is a poor judge of the other fellow.
 Every man for himself, and the devil for all.
Hindsight is better than foresight.
A squeaking hinge lasts the longest.
A hint is as good as a kick.
History is a fable agreed upon.
History is fiction with the truth left out.
History repeats itself.
History teaches by example.
The history of human opinion is the history of human errors.
To ignore the facts of history is to repeat them.
 A hit is as good as a run.
A man who tries to get home on a threebase hit is generally thrown out at the  plate.
Hits are the only shots that count.
More of a hit than any good wit.
 Don't hit before you look.
Hit first; talk afterwards.
Never hit a man when he's down.
Never hit a man when he's drunk.
Hitches lead to stitches.
Every man has his hobby.
You have to hoe a row of corn with a man in order to know him.
 Eat whole hog or die.
If you have but one hog, you make him fat; if you have but one sow, you make  her a fool.
If you talk with a hog, don't expect anything but a grunt.
Live with a hog and you'll grunt like one.
No hog ever grunted the ring out of its nose.
Rub a hog and he'll lay down on you.
Run with the hogs and they will rub dirt on you.
The stillest hog gets the most swill.
Wash a hog and it will return to its wallow.
You can't make a hog without a pig to start with.
You can't root with the hogs and have a clean nose.
Root, hog, or die.
The man who is overfond of anything will be unwilling to let go his hold upon  it.
 Hold fast to that which is good.
To hold is to have.
What'll hold more will hold less.
You can't hold another fellow down in the ditch unless you stay down there  with him.
You can't hold what you haven't got in your hand.
 A hole is nothing at all, but you can break your neck in it.
A little hole in your pocket is worse than a big one at the knee.
A little hole will sink a ship.
Every man must climb out of his own hole.
He that peeps through a hole may see what will vex him.
No one can dig up a hole.
The hole and the patch should be commensurate.
The hole invites the thief.
Where there's a mouse hole there'll soon be a rat hole.
You can't bore an auger hole with a gimlet.
 Every day is not a holiday.
'Tis not a holiday what's not kept holy.
Don't holler before you are hurt.
 A home without books is like a house without windows.
A man's home is his castle.
A small home is better than a large mortgage.
At home everything is easy.
East or west, home is best.
Every home is a world in itself.
Give a home to a child and reap reward.
Home is a world of strife shut out, a world of love shut in.
Home is home, be it ever so homely.
Home is the blossom of which heaven is the fruit.
Home is the father's kingdom, the children's paradise, the mother's world.
Home is the resort of love, joy, and plenty.
Home is what we make it.
Home is where the heart is.
Home is where the mortgage is.
Home is where you act the worst and are treated the best.
Home is where you hang your hat.
Home is where you make it.
Home-keeping folks are happiest.
It isn't a home without a phone.
One comfortable home is sufficient; any more are added headaches.
The longest mile is the last mile home.
The proof of the home is the nursery.
There is not a happy home on earth but stands on faith.
There's no place like home.
You can go home when you can't go anywhere else.
You can't come back to a home unless it was a home you left.
 An honest citizen is an exile in his own country.
An honest man is the noblest work of God.
An honest man is worth his weight in gold.
Be honest to your own self.
Honest men are soon bound.
It is better to be an honest man than a rich one.
We are bound to be honest, but not to be rich.
 Don't measure your neighbor's honesty by your own.
Every man has assurance enough to boast of his honesty--few of their  understanding.
He that departs with his own honesty for vulgar praise does too dearly buy.
Honesty is more praised than practiced.
Honesty is praised and left to starve.
Honesty is the best policy.
Honesty is the first step to greatness.
Honesty pays.
Let honesty and industry be your consistent companions.
No legacy is so rich as honesty.
Sell honestly, but not honesty.
There is more to honesty than meets the eye.
There is no price to honesty.
Daub yourself with honey and you will have plenty of flies.
Don't lick the honey off a briar even if it is sweet.
Eat your honey, but stop when you are full.
Honey catches more flies than vinegar.
Honey is sweet, but bees sting.
If you have no honey in your pot, have some in your mouth.
If you want to gather honey, you must bear the stings of bees.
It is not with saying "honey, honey" that sweetness comes into the mouth.
Look for the honey where you see the bee.
Make yourself honey and the flies will devour you.
Nothing but money is sweeter than honey.
While honey lies in every flower, no doubt, it takes a bee to get the honey out.
You never miss the honey till the bees are gone.
 The honeymoon is not actually over until we cease to stifle our sighs and begin  to stifle our yawns.
The honeymoon is over; now the marriage begins.
 A gracious woman obtains honor, and strong men obtain riches.
All honor's wounds are self-inflicted.
Among men of honor a word is a bond.
Be able to see someone else get honor, even if you can't.
Before honor is humility.
Honor and shame from no condition rise.
Honor exists but for the honorable.
Honor is of an old immaculate pedigree.
Honor is the reward of virtue.
Honor lies in honest toil.
Honor lost, much lost.
Honor to whom honor is due.
Honor will honor meet.
Honors change manners.
It is an honor not to be crowned.
It's better to die with honor than to live in infamy.
Seek honor first; pleasure always follows.
Some are born to honor, and some have honor thrust upon them.
The owner should bring honor to the house, not the house to the owner.
There is honor even among thieves.
 A hook's well lost to catch a salmon.
Bait the hook well and the fish will bite.
The hook without bait catches no fish.
Don't say "hop" until you've jumped over.
 A false-grounded hope is but a waking man's dream.
A good hope is better than a bad possession.
A mightier hope abolishes despair.
A vain hope flatters the heart of a fool.
Don't feed yourself on false hopes.
Don't give up hope till hope is dead.
He that lives on hope has a slender diet.
He that lives upon hope will die fasting.
He who has health has hope, and he who has hope has everything.
He who has hope has everything.
Hope and a red rag are baits for men and mackerel.
Hope and fear, peace and strife, make up the troubled web of life.
Hope deferred makes the heart sick.
Hope dies only when you die.
Hope inspires action, the true way to success.
Hope inspires; work wins; success rewards.
Hope is a good breakfast, but it is a bad supper.
Hope is a medicine every doctor can dispense without cost to his patient.
Hope is a slender reed for a stout man to lean on.
Hope is grief's best music.
Hope is the blossom of happiness.
Hope is the light of the world.
Hope is the nurse of misery.
Hope is the poor man's bread.
Hope is the worst of evils, for it prolongs the torment of man.
Hope keeps a man from hanging and drowning himself Rec.
Hope keeps the heart from breaking.
Hope paints her palace on the hilltop.
Hope proves a man deathless.
Hope runs to infinity.
Hope springs eternal in the human breast.
Hopes delayed hang the heart upon tenterhooks.
May hope be the physician when calamity is the disease.
Mighty hopes make us men.
The hope for the poor is like tough meat for one who has no teeth.
The hope of reward sweetens labor.
The houses hope builds are castles in the air.
There is more delight in hope than in enjoyment; anticipation is greater than  realization.
There's no hope for the wicked.
To seek is better than to gain: the fond hope dies as we attain.
 Do not anxiously hope for what is not yet come; do not vainly regret what is  already past.
He who only hopes is hopeless.
Hope and have.
Hope to the end.
To hope is to live.
If things look hopeless, look and see if you aren't facing the wrong direction.
Hopers wind up in hell.
The higher you rise, the higher is your horizon.
 Horns do sprout and often show; wings come out but you seldom know.
One who blows a horn will never blow a vault.
Speak of Satan and you'll see his horns.
The fellow who blows his horn the loudest is likely in the biggest fog.
The horn of plenty has started many a man on a toot.
Toot your own horn lest the same be never tooted.
 A chestnut horse will die before tiring.
A dying horse can kick harder than a normal horse.
A farting horse will never tire, and a farting man is the man to hire.
A flea-bitten horse never tires.
A good horse is worth its fodder.
A good horse may be forgiven a kick.
A hired horse never tires.
A horse can't pull while kicking.
A horse is as old as his teeth.
A horse never goes straight up a hill.
A lean horse wins the race.
A man on a galloping horse will never sit it.
A man without a horse is a man without legs.
A scary horse needs a stout bridle.
 A short horse is soon curried.
An old horse always knows its way home.
An old horse for a hard road.
An old horse slips quicker than a young one.
Any old horse can fart in the morning, but it takes a good horse to fart at night  after a good day's work.
Better ride a poor horse than go afoot.
Blind horse don't fall w'en he follers de bit.
Don't back the wrong horse.
Don't change horses in the middle of the stream.
Don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
Don't overwork a willing horse.
Don't pay for a dead horse.
Don't ride the high horse: the fall, when it comes, is hard.
Don't spur a willing horse.
Don't Whip the horse that is pulling.
Don't worry about the old horse being poor--just feed him.
Every horse is an animal, but not every animal is a horse.
Every horse thinks his pack heaviest.
Everyone lays a burden on the willing horse.
Galled horses can't endure the saddle.
He that can travel well afoot keeps a good horse.
He that will slight my horse will buy my horse.
He who wants to travel far saves his horse.
Hustle your horse and don't say die.
If the owner keeps his eye on the horse, it will fatten.
If you are on a strange horse, get off in the middle of the road.
If you can get over the horse, you can get over the tail.
If you can't get a horse, ride a cow.
If you want a good horse, ride the hell out of him.
In a hoss trade you gotta know either the hoss or the man.
It is a good horse who never stumbles.
It is of little use to Whip a dead horse.
It's a poor horse that doesn't know his oats.
It takes a young horse to do what an old horse can't.
Lend your horse and you may have back his skin.
More than one way to shoe a horse.
Never run a free horse to death.
One can't shoe a running horse.
One horse doesn't kick by itself.
Rub a galled horse and he will kick.
Stick to the old horse that carried you safely across.
The blind horse is fittest for the m Ill.
The borrowed horse has hard feet.
The common horse is worst shod.
The horse fed too freely with oats often becomes unruly.
The horse knows the way to his own stable.
The horse rides the rider.
The horse that draws best is most whipped.
The losing horse blames the saddle.
The willing horse carries the load.
The willing horse gets the Whip.
There's no such thing as a horse that can't be rode or a cowboy that can't be  throwed.
Try horse sense instead of horseplay.
When the horse is dead, the cow gets fat.
When two ride one horse, one must sit behind.
While one horse pulls and one horse bucks, there is no teamwork.
You cain't make a runnin' hoss outer a jackass.
You can fool an old horse once, but you can't fool him twice.
You can lead a horse to water, but you can't make him drink.
You can't judge a horse by its harness, nor people by their clothing.
You can't teach an old horse new tricks.
They are scared of horseflesh where two ride on a dog.
A timid horseman does not stay mounted long.
What some of us need is more horsepower and not so much exhaust.
Close ones only count in horseshoes.
The horseshoe that clatters wants a nail.
A merry host makes merry guests.
Don't reckon without your host.
The fairer the hostess, the fouler the reckoning.
A hound is worth whistling for.
A hungry hound thinks not of her whelps.
A lean hound for a long race.
Don't get ahead of the hounds.
Don't run with the hound and hold on to the hare.
It's safer to be a hound than a rabbit.
The fed hound never hunts.
There's more ways to kill a hound dog than to choke him to death on hot butter.
A man has his hours, a dog his day.
All of our sweetest hours fly fastest.
An hour in the morning is worth two in the evening.
An hour may destroy what was an age in building.
An hour wasted can never be regained.
 Everyone has twenty-four hours in his day.
 Hours were made for men, and not men for hours.
If you have an hour to spare, don't spend it with someone who hasn't.
 It's better to be an hour too early than a minute too late.
Late hours are bad for one, but they're all right for two.
Let the last hour be the hardest.
Many a man has done well at the last hour.
Pleasant hours fly fast.
Slowpokes get busy when the hour gets late.
Some people stay longer in an hour than others in a week.
Stolen hours are the sweetest.
The darkest hour has no more minutes in it than the brightest.
The darkest hour in any man's life is when he sits down to plan to get money  without earning it.
The darkest hour is just before dawn.
The hours that make us happy make us wise.
The only way to save an hour is spend it wisely.
To fill the hour--that is happiness.
A house divided against itself cannot stand.
A house filled with guests is eaten up and ill spoken of.
A house is best decorated by the presence of friends.
 A house that is built on sand will surely fall.
A house without books is like a room without windows.
A house without woman and firelight is like a body without soul or spirit.
A little house well filled, a little land well tilled, and a little wife well willed are  great riches.
A man should love his house well but should not ride on the ridge.
A man's house is his safest refuge.
A man's house is only less dear to him than his honor.
An empty house needs no roof.
Be deaf and blind in another man's house.
Better an empty house than a bad tenant.
Big houses have small families, and small houses big families.
Burn not your house to scare away the mice.
Everyone can keep house better than her mother until she tries.
First build your house and then think of the furniture.
Grace your house, and not let that grace you.
He who sells a house gets the price of the nails.
House goes mad when women gad.
If everyone swept in front of his house, the whole town would be clean.
If you don't live in the house, you don't know when it leaks.
In an orderly house all things are always ready.
It's a poor house that can't afford one lady.
It's not the house that makes the home, it's the love that is inside.
Let us put our own house in order.
Men build houses; women build homes.
No house was ever big enough for two women.
Not all houses are homes.
One can't shingle the house before one builds it.
Talk is but talk, but it's the money that buys the house.
The house is a castle Which the king cannot enter.
The house without children is a cemetery.
The houses hope builds are castles in the air.
There's no house built big enough for two families.
To a friend's house the trail is never long.
We each build our house of life from day to day--weak or strong.
When the house is open, the honest man sins.
When your neighbor's house is on fire, beware of your own.
With houses and gold men are rarely bold.
 You can build a house, but you have to make a home.
Start housecleaning in your own house.
A good housekeeper is always rewarded.
The daughter of a spry old woman makes a poor housekeeper.
Better to dwell on the housetop than with a contentious woman.
The eye of the housewife makes the cat fat.
The fingers of the housewife do more than a yoke of oxen.
The real housewife is at once a slave and a lady.
Never howl till you're hit.
A hug is energy gone to waste.
A human learns how to talk early, but how to keep silent late.
The human race has improved everything except people.
Above all nations is humanity.
The humble suffer from the folly of the great.
Be humble and obey: you will be giving orders someday.
The humble man is like the earth which kisses the feet of the king and of the  beggar alike.
The greatest humbug is to imagine that wealth makes a man happy.
Before honor comes humility.
Fairest and best adorned is she whose clothing is humility.
Humility is the foundation of all virtues.
It is not a sign of humility to disclaim against pride.
Too much humility is pride.
Good humor comes from the kitchen.
Good humor is the suspenders that keep our working clothes on.
Humor is the spice of life.
Humor is wit with a rooster's tail feathers stuck in its cap.
One of the best articles of dress one can put on in the morning is good humor.
A hunchback cannot see his hunch.
The hunchback only sees the hump of his neighbor.
At the workingman's house, hunger looks in, but dares not enter.
Hunger eats through stone walls and builds barricades.
Hunger fetches the wolf out of the woods.
Hunger is a great leveler.
Hunger is a good kitchen.
Hunger is the best pickle.
Hunger is the best sauce.
Hunger is the first course to a good dinner.
Hunger knows no friend.
Hunger made the monkey eat red pepper.
Hunger makes hard beans sweet.
Hunger makes the best cook.
Hunger never saw bad bread Var.
Hunger sweetens what is bitter.
Hunger tames the wild beast.
Where there is hunger law is not regarded, and where law is not regarded there  will be hunger.
 A hungry louse bites hard.
 A hungry man is an angry man.
 A hungry man sees far.
 A hungry nigger makes a clean dish.
 A hungry stomach has no ears.
 Hungry men call the cook lazy.
 Hungry rooster don't cackle w'en he fin' a wum.
 It is easier to feed two hungry people than one with a coming appetite.
 The hungry man often talks of bread.
Don't hunt with unwilling hounds.
All are not hunters who blow the horn.
There's plenty of hunting but little finding.
 Always in a hurry, always beh Ind.
Careless hurry may cause endless regret.
Hurry is only good for catching flies.
Hurry makes waste.
Let no one see you in a hurry.
The greater hurry, the worse the speed.
The man in a hurry is in a hurry to go nowhere.
 Don't hurry--start early.
It doesn't pay to hurry, as you pass up more than you catch.
Watch out for the hurry-up man.
 He who hurts gets hurt.
The things which hurt, instruct.
You always hurt the one you love.
A bad husband cannot be a good man.
A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple.
A good husband makes a good wife.
Better to have a husband without love than with jealousy.
Each husband gets the infidelity he deserves.
Husbands are all alike, but they have different faces so you can tell them apart.
Husbands are like automobiles: if you take care of them, you don't have to be  getting new ones all the time.
Husban's is as husban's done.
If the husband had every other child, there would be no second child in the  family.
If you would know a bad husband, look at his wife's countenance.
Motherless husband makes happy wife.
Plenty of husbands, but only one mother.
The best husbands aren't caught, they're made.
The calmest husbands make the stormiest wives.
The husband is the head of the house, but the wife is the neck--and the neck  moves the head.
The husband's the last one to know.
The uglier the man, the better the husband.
The woman who obeys her husband rules him.
When the husband earns well, the wife spends well.
Good husbandry is not bad divinity.
Husbandry and letters are the two chief professions.
The husk often tells what the kernel is.
All things come to him who hustles while he waits.
A hut is a palace to a poor man.
Buy hyacinths to feed the soul.
 Hypocrisy is the homage that vice pays to virtue.
It is rank hypocrisy to teach virtue and yet to practice vice.
There is an hypocrisy in vice as well as religion.
A hypocrite deceives no one but himself.
A hypocrite destroys his neighbor with his mouth.
A hypocrite is one who feeds a starving man words.
The hypocrite tributes to God that he may impose on men.
The hypocrite's mask becomes his face.
In skating over thin ice, our safety is in our speed.
The thinner the ice is, the more anxious is everyone to see whether it will bear.
Thin ice and thick ice look the same from a distance.
Thin ice carries no weight.
Try the ice before you venture upon it.
Enjoy your ice cream while it's on your plate.
If the icebox gets on fire, wring the towel.
Alter ideas and you alter the world.
An idea that is not dangerous is unworthy to be called an idea at all.
Good ideas are born in the minds that keep working--lazy minds and good ideas  are strangers.
Ideas are weapons.
Ideas never work unless you do.
It is better to have no ideas than false ones.
It's with ideas as with pieces of money: those with the least value generally  circulate the most.
Notice that ideas start with "I.
One good idea put to use is worth a hundred buzzing around in the back of your  head.
To have ideas is to gather flowers; to think is to weave them into garlands.
You can't just abstract ideas into concrete heads.
No ideal is as good as a fact.
The ideal is but the truth at a distance.
The ideal we embrace is our better self.
If idiocy were pain, there would be groaning in every house.
A natural idiot is bad enough, but a learned idiot is an intolerable bore.
An idiot--they happen in the best of families.
The idiot bakes snow in the oven and expects ice-cream pie.
The idiot looks at the mirror and sees a scholar.
Be always ashamed to catch yourself idle.
Better be idle than badly employed.
Better to sit idle than to work idle.
Idleness and lust are bosom friends.
Idleness and pride tax with a heavier hand than kings and parliaments.
Idleness breeds trouble.
Idleness goes in rags.
Idleness in youth makes way for a painful and miserable old age.
Idleness is hunger's mother, and of theft it is full brother.
Idleness is never enjoyable unless there is plenty to do.
Idleness is only the refuge of weak minds, the holiday of fools.
Idleness is the Dead Sea that swallows all virtues.
Idleness is the greatest prodigality.
Idleness is the key of beggary.
Idleness is the mother of evil.
Idleness is the refuge of weak minds and the holiday of fools.
Idleness leads to failure.
Idleness turns the edge of wit.
In idleness there is perpetual despair.
Of idleness comes no goodness.
Prolonged idleness provides food for vice.
We are taxed twice as much by our idleness, three times as much by our pride,  and four times as much by our folly.
A young idler, an old beggar.
An idler is a watch that wants both hands, as useless if it goes as if it stands.
If "ifs" and "ands" were pots and pans, there would be no need for tinkers.
"If" is a big stiff.
"If" is a little word with a big meaning.
"If" is a little word, yet it is so big you can't get around or over it.
 "If" is the longest word ever spoken.
If it wasn't for the "ifs," you would be rich.
"Ifs" and "buts" butter no bread.
Better be unborn than untaught, for ignorance is the root of misfortune.
Double ignorance is where a man is ignorant of his ignorance.
If ignorance is bliss, why be otherwise? Rec.
Ignorance and bungling with love are better than wisdom and skill without.
Ignorance and pride grow on the same wood.
Ignorance breeds impudence.
Ignorance is a voluntary misfortune.
Ignorance is an ungrateful guest.
Ignorance is better than error, but the active fool is a holy terror.
Ignorance is bliss.
Ignorance is blister.
Ignorance is no excuse.
Ignorance is the father of crime.
Ignorance is the mother of conceit.
Ignorance is the mother of superstition.
Ignorance is the result of neglected opportunities.
Ignorance is universal.
Ignorance leads men into a party, and shame keeps them from getting out again.
Ignorance of one's misfortunes is clear gain.
Ignorance of the law is no excuse.
Laugh and show your ignorance.
No one can talk for more than five minutes without exposing the extent of his  ignorance.
The more we study, the more we discover our ignorance.
The quickest way to show ignorance is to talk about something you know  nothing about.
There is nothing more frightful than a bustling ignorance.
Where ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise.
Your ignorance is your worst enemy.
Being ignorant is not so much shame as being unwilling to learn.
He who is ignorant knows not that he is.
How ignorant are those who men say know it all.
It ain't the things you don't know that makes you ignorant as much as the things  you know that ain't so.
It is impossible to defeat an ignorant man in argument.
It is only the ignorant that despise education.
It pays to be ignorant.
Some are too ignorant to be humble.
Unlettered men are not always the most ignorant, nor learned men always wise.
Better to bear the ills we have than fly to others we know not of.
Don't speak ill of yourself; others will do it for you.
Fear to do ill and you need fear nought else.
For every ill beneath the sun, there is some remedy or none.
He that does ill hates the light.
He that speaks ill of the mare will buy her.
If you do ill, the joy fades, not the pains; if well, the pain does fade, the joy  remains.
It costs more to do ill than well.
Of two ills, choose the least.
Say no ill of the year till it be past.
Speak not rather than speak ill.
To favor the ill is to injure the good.
Better ill fed than ill bred.
Ill will never speaks well or does well.
It's ill halting before a cripple.
Never do anyone an ill turn.
Ill-doers are ill-thinkers.
Illness makes a man a scoundrel.
Illness which we imagine is often harder to bear than illness which we  experience.
Don't part with your illusions; when they are gone you may exist, but you have  ceased to live.
It is natural to man to indulge in the illusions of hope.
I'll warrant ye "I'll warrant ye" goes before rashness.
Don't let your imagination run away with you.
Imagination dives deeper and soars higher than nature goes.
Imagination rules the world.
Imagination will take you a long ways and then let you fall.
Imitation is the highest form of flattery.
To the immature, all apples are green.
A little impatience spoils great plans.
Impatience does not diminish, but increases the evil.
Impatience gathers unripe fruit.
Don't measure your importance by your morning shadow.
We are often of greater importance in our own eyes than in the eyes of our  neighbors.
No matter how important you are, you can catch the measles.
He who has suffered you to impose on him knows you.
Do not attempt the impossible.
Impossible is un-American.
Never believe the impossible.
No one is bound to do the impossible.
Nothing is impossible.
The impossible always happens.
The impossible is possible if true.
The word "impossible" is not in my dictionary.
First impressions are best.
First impressions are half the battle.
First impressions are the most lasting.
First impressions rule the mind.
It is easier to make an impression on an easy chair than to make an impression  on the world.
Never judge by first impressions.
First improve yourself today; then improve your friends tomorrow.
If you don't improve today, you'll grow worse tomorrow.
Try to improve yourself.
It is better to be impudent than a bootlicker.
Our best impulses are too delicate to endure much handling.
Impunity always invites to greater crime.
Inaction gnaws the heartstrings.
Inactivity breeds ignorance.
Nothing is endless but inanity.
An inch in missing is as bad as a mile.
Deviate an inch, lose a thousand miles.
Give an inch, take a mile.
Income is measured by output.
The happiest place in the world to live is within one's income.
The larger the income, the harder it is to live within it.
Inconsistency is the attendant of a weak mind.
Inconsistency is the only thing in which men are consistent.
Indecision is fatal, so make up your mind.
He who is independent cannot be greater.
An Indian, a partridge, and a spruce tree can't be tamed.
An Indian scalps his enemies, while a white man skins his friends.
Don't be an Indian giver.
Maybe the Indians didn't do much for the country, but they didn't mortgage it.
Never trust an Indian.
The Indian will come back to his blanket.
The only good Indian is a dead Indian.
White man fool Indian once, shame on white man; white man fool Indian twice,  shame on Indian.
Do not undertake rashly nor perform with a cold indifference.
By indirection find direction out.
Indolence breeds misery.
An indolent man draws his breath but does not eat.
The indolent makes little headway.
An industrious man is tempted by one devil, an idle one by seven.
All things are easy to industry, all things difficult to sloth.
An hour's industry will do more to produce cheerfulness than a month's  moaning.
In every rank, both great and small, 'tis industry that supports us all.
Industry is fortune's right hand, and frugality her left.
Industry is the greatest conqueror.
Industry is the parent of success.
Industry keeps the body healthy, the mind clear, the heart whole, and the purse  full.
Industry need not wish.
Industry pays debts, but despair increases them.
Industry will improve great talents if you have them.
Nothing is impossible to industry.
When industry goes out at the door, poverty comes in at the window.
Inequality is as dear to the American heart as liberty itself.
No one is infallible.
Infamy is the livery of bad deserts.
Spurn not an inferior.
Deride not any man's infirmities.
Informal's what women always say they're going to be and never are.
A great part of the information one has was acquired by looking up something  and finding something else on the way.
Don't memorize information; know where to find it.
An informer's money has a Judas ring.
The informer is the worse rogue of the two.
Ingratitude is unpardonable and dries up the fountain of all goodness.
Ingratitude sometimes brings its own punishment.
Next to ingratitude, the most painful thing to bear is gratitude.
There are three ingredients in the good life: learning, earning, and yearning.
He who anticipates his inheritance will be the inheritor of beggary.
It is inhuman to bless when one is being cursed.
Man's inhumanity to man makes countless thousands mourn.
He that sows iniquity shall reap vanity.
The path of iniquity is broad and smooth.
A man possessing initiative is a creator.
Initiative is doing the right thing without being told.
Folks often injure all they fear and hate all they injure.
Injure no man.
Injure others, injure yourself.
Nothing is more injurious than unoccupied time.
A small injury often brings great woe.
An injury is sooner forgotten than an insult.
Be more ready to forgive than to return an injury.
If you defend an injury, you are almost as bad as the guilty party.
Injuries may be forgiven, but not forgotten.
It costs more to revenge than to bear with injuries.
It is better to bear a single injury in silence than to provoke a thousand by flying  into a rage.
It is better to suffer an injury than to inflict one.
No one pretends to hate an injury more than he who offers it.
 Requite injury with kindness.
 The best remedy for an injury is to forget it.
Write injuries in dust, benefits in marble.
You invite future injuries if you revive past ones.
It is better to suffer injustice than to do it.
A drop of ink may make a million think.
The palest ink is better than the finest memory.
An inn and fresh acquaintances are dangerous.
Innocence is no protection.
Lost innocence and wasted time are never recovered.
Innocence breeds confidence.
An innocent man needs no loudspeaker: his life speaks for itself.
It is easy to defend the innocent.
Only the innocent die young.
To innovate may not reform.
Innovations are dangerous.
To inquire is neither a disaster nor a disgrace.
Insensibility is the companion of drunkenness.
If you are inside, you can't be outside.
The insolent have no friends.
Inspiration for writing is mostly the application of the seat of pants to the seat of  the chair.
Three-fourths of inspiration is perspiration.
An institution is the lengthened shadow of one man.
The things which hurt, 'instruct.
Good instruction is better than riches.
Hear instruction and be wise and refuse it not.
The grand instructor is time.
Don't add insult to injury.
He who puts up with insult invites injury.
Insult begets insult as bugs beget bugs.
Insults and affronts are innocent where men are worthless.
A little integrity is better than any career.
Integrity is praised and starves.
Integrity is the best mantle.
Intellect is invisible to the man who has none.
 A man shall be commended according to his intelligence; but he that is of a  distorted understanding shall be despised.
If you don't claim too much intelligence, people will give you credit for more  than you have.
In a world of fools, intelligence is a fatal handicap.
Intelligence is like a river: the deeper it is, the less noise it makes.
Intelligence is worth more than richness.
Intelligence seeks its own level.
Never underestimate the intelligence of your enemy.
The intelligence of the average individual reaches its lowest ebb when he enters  a railroad station.
An intelligent person is one who knows when to keep his mouth shut.
In the current of life, beware of the gulf of intemperance.
A good intention clothes itself with sudden power.
Good intentions will not justify evil actions.
Intentions as well as actions must be good to be acceptable.
Live up to your good intentions and put the devil out of business.
The intention denominates the action.
To buy something with the intention of not paying for it is as bad as to steal it.
Everyone speaks for his own interest.
He who makes an idol of his interest makes a martyr of his integrity.
Interest blinds some people, enlightens others.
It is in his own interest that the cat purrs.
 When interest is lost, memory is lost.
Would you persuade, speak of interest, not of reason.
Interest runs on while you sleep.
Many a man has risen above principle for the sake of interest.
They who borrow trouble must pay a high rate of interest.
Be interested and you will be interesting.
Never interfere with nothin' that don't bother you.
Intimacy breeds contempt.
Intimacy has been the course of the deadliest enemy.
Make one in a thousand an intimate.
There is nothing so intolerable as a fortunate fool.
Intolerance is the child of ignorance.
Intoxication is a temporary madness.
Intoxication is not the wine's fault, but the man's.
Invention breeds invention.
One of the greatest labor-saving inventions of today is tomorrow.
A good investment is the time spent in the Lord's house.
An investment in knowledge pays the best interest.
Goodness is the only investment that never fails.
The best investment for income is honesty.
Invincible in peace and invisible in war.
As we are inwardly, so shall we appear outwardly.
Nothing's too good for the Irish.
Don't have too many irons in the fire.
Iron cuts iron.
Iron sharpens iron.
Strike while the iron is hot.
It is just as is and ain't no is-er.
Isolation means abolishment.
The itch of pleasure does not itch at all.
He who itches for something seldom scratches for it.
If you itch for something, scratch for it.
A bad Jack may have a bad Jill.
For every Jack there is a Jill.
Jack of all trades and master of none.
Jack's as good as his master.
There's a Jack for every JIll.
There's never a Jack without a JIll.
A jackal gone on a pilgrimage is incredible news.
A jackass makes no progress when he's kicking.
Any jackass can make money; it takes a wise man to keep it.
A jackdaw is ever found near to a jackdaw.
Do not wish to be rare like jade or common like stone.
He who waits for something to turn up is likely to turn up in jail.
As James treats God, so God treats James.
Never shut out the January sun.
A good Jap is a dead Jap.
Women's jars breed men's wars.
The jawbone does the mischief.
Jaybirds don't rob their own nests.
A loving man is always a jealous man.
Jealousy is a green-eyed monster.
Jealousy is a proof of self-love.
Jealousy leads to folly and injustice.
Without jealousy, there is no love.
Jehovah helps the ones that help themselves.
A jest is no argument, and loud laughter no demonstration.
A jest is received in good spirit; a jeer breeds ill w Ill.
A jest's prosperity lies in the ear of him that hears it, never in the tongue of him  that makes it.
Better lose a jest than a friend.
Half in jest, whole in earnest.
Jests, like sweetmeats, often have sour sauce.
The worst jests are the true ones.
True jests breed bad blood.
When your jest is at its best, let it rest.
Do not jest in serious matters.
Jest with your equals: a fool can't take a joke.
You cannot jest an enemy into a friend, but you can jest a friend into an enemy.
A common jester may have wit but not wisdom.
Jesters do oft prove prophets.
Men may be pleased with a jester, but they never esteem him.
The truest jester sounds worst in guilty ears.
Clumsy jesting is no joke.
Jesting often indicates a want of understanding.
A Jew can make a living by selling shoestrings.
The jingle of the guinea heals the hurt that honor feels.
A good mother's job does not end in the house.
A job is an uncomfortable thing to be down on.
A job started right is a job half done.
A job well done is worth two half done.
A job worth doing is worth doing well.
A man ain't no bigger than the job it takes to give him a swell head.
Any man with nothing to do has a hard job.
Better to fall down on the job than to lie down.
Don't get down on your job because you are not quite up to it.
Handle the hardest job first.
If you want a job well done, give it to a busy man.
If you wish the job was through, do it now.
It's a poor job that can't afford one boss.
Let us make the best of a bad job.
Make your job important; it will return the favor.
Soft jobs make soft people.
Start a job on Friday and it will never be finished.
Stick to your own job.
The hardest job a child faces is that of learning manners without seeing any.
The hardest job is no job.
The hardest job to find is an easy job.
The hardest part of the job is the beginning.
The other fellow's job is always easier.
There may be luck in getting a good job, but there's no luck in keeping it.
Two-thirds of the job is to please the master.
When the job is well done, you can hang up the hammer.
Johnny is as Johnny does.
What Johnny will not teach himself, Johnny will never learn.
A joke never gains over an enemy but often loses a friend.
A rich man's joke is always funny.
Don't carry a joke too far.
Don't tell all of your jokes on one program.
He who laughs last just got the joke.
It's past joking when the head's off.
A journey of a thousand miles begins with one step.
In a long journey and a small inn, one knows one's company.
Journey's end is lover's meeting.
The best of the journey is getting home.
A joy that's shared is a joy made double.
After joy comes sorrow.
All the joys in the world can't take one gray hair out of our heads.
Easy got, easy gain: short joy, long pain.
Gild a joy and heal a pain.
Joy and sorrow are next-door neighbors.
Joy is kin to sorrow.
Joy is the best wine.
Joy which we cannot share with others is only half enjoyed.
Joys are our wings; our sorrows, our spurs.
Let your joys be many and your sorrows be few.
No joy without annoy.
One inch of joy surmounts of grief a span, because to laugh is proper to the  man.
Our greatest joys and our greatest sorrows grow on the same vine.
Shared joys are doubled; shared sorrows are halved.
Taste the joy that springs from labor.
The future joy makes the past and the present bearable.
There's more joy in anticipation than in realization.
There's no joy in anything unless we share it.
Today's joys may be tomorrow's woes.
When joy is in the parlor, sorrow is at the kitchen sink.
Who pleasure gives shall joy receive.
An upright judge has more regard for justice than for man.
An upright judge regards the law and disregards the lawyers and litigants.
Judges should have two ears, both alike.
The best judge knows the least.
The judge is condemned when the guilty man is acquitted.
When you buy judges someone sells justice.
Don't judge a man by his opinion of himself.
Don't judge a man by the coat he wears.
Don't judge others by yourself.
Few men would live if all were judged justly.
He judges best who thinks least.
He who judges others condemns himself.
If you judge your own case you are judged by a fool.
Judge a man by his deeds, not by his words.
Judge a man by what he does, not by what he says.
Judge not of men or things at first sight.
Judge not that you be not judged.
Judge others by what you do.
Judge well yourself before you criticize.
Judge yourself by the friends you have.
Never judge before you sec.
We are judged by how we look as well as how we act.
We judge others by their acts, but ourselves by our intentions.
You are judged not by what you have but by what you do with that you have.
Correct judgment is the mind's most resplendent ornament.
When the judgment is weak, the prejudice is strong.
The jug goes to the well until it breaks.
The less there is in a jug, the more noise it makes coming out.
Whether the stone bumps the jug or the jug bumps the stone, it is bad for the  jug.
Don't jump from the frying pan into the fire.
It doesn't matter how high you jump provided you walk straight when you get  down.
Jump when the wave is on the swell.
Every man is entitled to be judged by a jury of his peers.
Many a wretch has been hanged because the jury men didn't want to miss their  supper.
Be just and fear not.
Be just before you are generous.
Be just in your dealings and trust to providence for aid in advancement.
Be just to all, but trust not all.
It rains on the just and on the unjust.
Do justice; love mercy; practice humility.
If you want justice for yourself, be just to others.
Justice delayed is justice denied.
Justice exalts a nation.
Justice goes out the window when profit comes in.
Justice has a nose of putty--it is easily broken.
Justice is blind.
Let justice be done though the heavens fall.
One man's justice is another man's injustice; one man's beauty another man's  ugliness; one man's wisdom another's folly.
The sword of justice has no scabbard.
To the strong is justice given.
We all love justice--at our neighbor's expense.
Who demands justice must administer justice.
You don't like justice when it is brought home to your own door step.
The only justification for a business is the service it renders.
The only justification of rebellion is success.
He that will eat the kernel must crack the nut.
He that will have the kernel must crack the shell.
The sweetest kernel lies in the hard shell.
A kettle rattles most before it boils.
A watched kettle never boils.
An empty kettle makes the most noise.
Every kettle has to sit on its own bottom.
It's a dry kettle that has the most spouting.
No matter how black the kettle, there is always a lid to fit it.
On an old kettle there isn't much to mend.
Remember the kettle: though up to the neck in hot water, it continues to sing.
The kettle should not call the pot black.
The kettle's singing; 'twill soon be boiling.
A little key may unlock a box wherein lies a bunch of keys.
All the keys hang not at one's girdle.
Silence is often the key to success.
The golden key opens every door.
The used key is always bright.
There's a key for every lock.
Look through a keyhole and your life will be sore.
What many of us need most is a good vigorous kick in the seat of the can'ts.
You needn't kick before you're spurred.
It's better to be kicked around than kicked about.
You can't kid the foolish.
There are more ways than one to kill a cat.
No one claims kin to the fortuneless age.
Each kind attracts its own.
It takes all kinds of people to make a world.
Be kind in all you do and say, that others may be kind to you.
Be kind to animals.
Be kind to one another.
It doesn't cost anything to be kind.
You never lose by being kind.
A forced kindness deserves no thanks.
A kindness is never lost.
A word of kindness is seldom spoken in vain.
An act of kindness is well repaid.
Be kind and gentle to those who are old, for kindness is dearer and better than  gold.
He that has once done you a kindness will be more ready to do you another than  he whom you yourself have obliged.
He who plants kindness gathers joy.
Kindness always begets kindness.
Kindness always pays.
Kindness brings happiness.
Kindness does more than violence.
Kindness effects more than severity.
Kindness is a great peacemaker.
Kindness is greater than law.
Kindness is language which the deaf can hear and the blind can see.
Kindness is lost upon an ungrateful man.
Kindness is more binding than a loan.
Kindness is seldom thrown away, be it given to the highest or lowliest of  creatures.
Kindness is stronger than force.
Kindness is the noblest weapon to conquer with.
Kindness is the sunshine of social life.
Kindness is to do and say the kindest thing in the kindest way.
Kindness, like grain, increases by sowing.
Kindness to the just is never lost, but kindness to the wicked is unkindness to  yourself.
Never forget a kindness.
No one has ever been killed by kindness.
 One kindness deserves another.
One kindness is the price of another.
Repay kindness with kindness.
Tell a miser he's rich and a woman she's old, and you'll get no money of one nor  kindness of t'other.
There's nothing so kingly as kindness and nothing so royal as truth.
Unfading are the gardens of kindness.
A king is never powerful that has not power on the sea.
An ignorant king is a crowned ass.
Bad kings and governors help us if only they are bad enough.
He who reigns within himself is more than a king.
I'd rather be king among dogs than be a dog among kings.
If the king is in the palace, nobody looks at the walls.
Kings and bears often worry their keeper.
Kings and queens must die, as well as you and I.
Kings and realms pass away, but time goes on forever.
Kings can do no wrong.
Kings have long arms.
The king goes as far as he can, not so far as he would.
The king is the man who can.
 The king reigns but does not rule.
The king who fights himself, fights himself.
Where nothing is, the king must lose his right.
Where the king is, there is the court.
A kingdom divided against itself cannot Stand.
While the kingfisher and the oyster are struggling, the fisherman gets both.
There is nothing so kingly as kindness and nothing so royal as truth.
Many kinsfolk, few friends.
Nearest the kirk, the farthest frae grace.
A kiss and a drink of water is but a tasteless breakfast.
A kiss without a squeeze is like a piece of pie without a piece of cheese.
Getting kisses out of a woman is like getting olives out of a bottle: the first may  be devilish difficult, but the rest come easy.
Kisses are the language of love.
Many are betrayed with a kiss.
Stolen kisses are the best.
There's never been anyone to die because of a kiss, but many a poor soul has  died for the lack of one.
Don't kiss and tell: honor in love is silence.
If you can kiss the mistress, never kiss the maid.
Kiss and make up.
She who is kissed by more than one is worthy of being kissed by none.
Kissing goes by favor.
A fat kitchen makes a lean will.
A hungry kite sees a dead horse afar off.
Don't fly your kite too high.
Fly your kite when it's windy.
No kite ever flew so high but what its tail followed it.
 Because kittens may be born in an oven, that does not make them loaves of  bread.
For if you burn the kittens, sure the old cat comes their wounds to cure.
Wanton kittens may make sober cats.
Who ever saw a kitten bring a mouse to the old cat? Rec.
 A knave discovered is the greatest fool.
Knave in grain, a knave of the first rate.
Knaves and fools divide the world.
Knaves and nettles are akin: stroke 'em kindly, yet they'll sting.
Knaves are in such repute that honest men are accounted fools.
Knaves imagine nothing can be done without knavery.
Once a knave, always a knave.
One piece of knave begets another.
When knaves betray each other, one can scarce be blamed or the other pitied.
When knaves fall out, honest men get their goods; when priests dispute we  come at the truth.
Knavery is the worst trade.
Knavery may serve a turn, but honesty is best in the end.
Love, knavery, and necessity make men good orators.
Girls who show their knees know all about the birds and bees.
If your knees knock, kneel on them.
Never get down on your knees: your pants get baggy.
The human knee is a joint and not an entertainment.
Dull knife cuts cheese thinner than a sharp one.
Not every one who carries a long knife is a cook.
One knife sharpens another.
There never was a good knife made of bad steel.
Wherever there's a sharp knife there's always a sharpener.
A knock is as good as a boost.
Every knock knicks the knocker.
A knocker never wins and a winner never knocks.
Opportunities seldom knock for knockers.
Those knocking are always on the outside.
He that doesn't tie a knot may lose his first stitch.
If a string is in a knot, patience can untie it.
If the knot is loose, the string will slip.
Knots are more easily tied than untied.
The knot that is tied in treachery will be loosed by jealousy.
When one reknots a broken cord, it holds, but one feels the knot.
When the knot reaches the comb of the loom, you have to break the thread.
When you get married you tie a knot with your tongue that you can't untie with  your teeth.
When you're down and out, tie a knot in your rope and hang on.
All that we know is that we know nothing.
Better know nothing than half-know many things.
He knows enough who knows how to mind his own business.
He knows most who speaks least.
He that knows himself knows others.
He that knows least presumes most.
He who knows all believes.
He who knows does not speak; he who speaks does not know.
He who knows little repeats it.
He who knows little soon tells it.
He who knows most knows best how little he knows.
He who thinks he knows the most knows the least.
It is better not to know than to be wrong.
It is good to know much but better to have use of what we know.
It isn't how much you know, but what you know.
It's better to know nothing than to know that it ain't so.
It's not what you know, but whom you know.
It's not what you know that counts; it's how you use what you know.
Know thyself.
Most of us know how to say nothing; few of us know when.
No one knows what will happen to him the next moment.
Of all cold words of tongue or pen, the worst are these: "I knew him when.
People who know themselves best are ashamed of themselves.
The less we know, the more we suspect.
The more one knows, the more one simplifies.
The more that a man knows, the more worth he is.
Those who know do not speak; those who speak do not know.
'Tis better not to know than in knowing err.
To know is nothing at all; to imagine is everything.
To know is to care.
To know what we know and to know what we do not know--that is  understanding.
We know what we are, but we do not know what we may be.
What one doesn't know won't hurt him.
What we know is the measure of what we see.
When we don't know it, it won't make us feel hot.
You will never know till you try.
It's all in knowing how.
Knowing is power.
Knowing that you don't know much is knowing a lot.
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing.
A man can be saved no faster than he gains knowledge.
Concealed knowledge is buried treasure.
He that boasts of his own knowledge proclaims his ignorance.
He that has knowledge spares his words.
He who has knowledge has force.
He who loves correctors loves knowledge.
If you have knowledge, you should let others light their candles by it.
If you want knowledge, you must toil for it.
Increase your knowledge and you increase your griefs.
Knowledge and timber shouldn't be much used until they are seasoned.
Knowledge and wisdom are far from being one.
Knowledge begins with awareness of self.
Knowledge cannot be stolen from us; it cannot be bought or sold.
Knowledge comes, but wisdom lingers.
Knowledge comes, knowledge goes; wisdom stays.
Knowledge conquered by labor becomes a possession.
Knowledge directs practice, and practice increases knowledge.
Knowledge finds its price.
Knowledge is a treasure, but practice is the key to it.
Knowledge is better than riches.
Knowledge is better than wealth.
Knowledge is knowing that we cannot know.
Knowledge is nothing when good breeding is lacking.
Knowledge is proud that he knows so much; wisdom is humble that he knows  no more.
Knowledge is the basis of life.
Knowledge is the treasure of the mind.
Knowledge itself is power.
Knowledge talks lowly; ignorance talks loudly.
Much knowledge is gained by listening.
One should respect knowledge, but doubt is what gets you an education.
The lamp of knowledge burns brightly.
The larger the island of knowledge the longer the shoreline of wonder.
To be proud of knowledge is to be blind with light; to be proud of virtue is to  poison yourself with the antidote.
To gather knowledge, roam; to use it, bide at home.
Who keeps the old akindle and adds new knowledge is fit to be a teacher.
Without knowledge there is no sin or sinner.
Better known than trusted.
If you don't want it known, don't do it.
It is being known that makes us behave.
Don't rely on the label of the bag.
A mountain in labor brought forth a mouse.
By labor comes wealth.
From labor there shall come forth rest.
In all labor there is profit.
Labor brings pleasure, idleness, and pain.
Labor conquers all things.
Labor helps, but you get more by luck.
Labor is light where love does pay.
Labor is the law of happiness.
Labor makes life sweet.
Labor warms; sloth harms.
Little labor, little gain.
Nothing is denied to well-directed labor, and nothing is attained without it.
Seek till you find and you'll never lose your labor.
The labor of the righteous tends to life, the fruit of the wicked to sin.
The poor man's labor is the rich man's wealth.
There is no labor in the labor of love, and there is love in honest labor.
What you get by your own labor is sweet to the taste.
You may share the labors of the great, but you will not share the spoil.
Labor not to be rich.
Learn to labor and to wait.
People labor all their lives to be rich that they might live without labor.
'Tis pleasant to labor for those we love.
A poor laborer is better than a rich loafer.
The laborer is worthy of his hire.
The lazy lad makes a stark old man.
Don't get off the ladder before you reach the ground.
Go down the ladder for a wife; go up the ladder for a friend.
He that climbs a ladder must begin at the first round.
He who climbs to the top of a wall should not kick over his ladder, as he might  wish something to climb down again.
He who holds the ladder is as bad as the thief.
Step by step the ladder is ascended.
The bottom of the ladder is crowded; there's plenty of room at the top.
There's no boosting a man up the ladder unless he's willing to climb.
We build ladders by which we rise.
A lady is a woman who makes it easy for a man to be a gentleman.
A lady is known by the product she endorses.
A lady persuaded against her will is of the same opinion still.
Farfetched and dear bought is a bargain for the ladies.
Keep the ladies busy and that keeps them out of mischief.
Ladies don't smoke.
Ladies in slacks should not turn their backs.
Ladies young and fair have the gift to know it.
Once a lady, always a lady.
To change the mind is a lady's privilege.
When a lady says no, she means perhaps; when she says perhaps, she means  yes; when she says yes, she is no lady.
When ladies wear the breeches, their petticoats ought to be long enough to hide  'em.
You mustn't rush a lady.
Lambs have the grace to suck kneeling.
Outwardly a lamb, inwardly a wolf.
The bleating lamb is strangled by the wolf.
The lamb who bites a wolf never bites again.
The older a lamb becomes, the more sheepish he grows.
Live with the lame and you will limp.
A lame man won't walk with one who is lamer.
It is better to be lame than always seated.
The lame man who keeps the right road outstrips the runner who keeps the  wrong one.
He who sows his land trusts in God.
Ill fares the land in which money is more than men.
Many a one for land takes a fool by the hand.
The land provides for the lame and the lazy.
Who has land has war.
A shady lane breeds mud.
Every lane has a turning.
It's a long lane that has no turn.
Abusive language is abuse of language.
Civil language costs little and does good.
He who is ignorant of foreign languages knows not his own.
It often shows a fine command of language to say nothing.
Language is caught, not taught.
Language is the dress of thought.
Language is the vehicle of truth.
The fouler his language, the fouler the man.
The man who knows two languages is worth two men.
The last lap is the hardest.
Everybody has a little larceny in him.
It is better to hear the lark sing than the mouse cheep.
You can't rise with the lark if you've been on one the night before.
Last gets the hash.
The last is not the least.
That which is last is best.
The latchstring is always out.
Always late, never succeed.
Better come late to church than never.
Better late than before anyone has invited you.
Better late than never.
Better late than sorry.
Better on time than late.
It is too late to cover the well when the child is drowned.
It is too late to lock the stable door when the steed is stolen.
It is too late to throw water on the cinders when the house is burned down.
It's never too late until it's too late.
It's too late to learn how to box when you're in the ring.
It's too late to spare when the bottom is bare.
Well lathered, half shaved.
A laugh a day makes the world seem gay.
A laugh is worth a thousand groans in any market.
A loud laugh bespeaks the vacant mind.
Better you laugh than I weep.
He who laughs at others' woes finds few friends and many foes.
He who laughs in his youth cries in his old age.
He who laughs last laughs best.
It is better to laugh than to cry.
Laugh and be well.
Laugh and grow fat.
Laugh and show your ignorance.
Laugh and the world laughs with you; cry and you cry alone.
Laugh before breakfast, cry before sunset.
Laugh in the face of disaster: fate never meddles with mirth.
Let them laugh that win.
To laugh at a man with sense is the privilege of fools.
To laugh at someone is to be laughed back at.
When we laugh, everyone sees; when we cry, no one sees.
A good laugher makes a bad neighbor.
A spoonful of laughing equals a spoonful of crying.
Always leave them laughing.
Laughing at the table is the best sauce.
Laughing is catching.
A ripple of laughter is worth a flood of tears.
After laughter, tears.
Laughter before sleep, tears when wakened.
Laughter does not spoil the skin.
Laughter is the best medicine.
Laughter is the hiccup of a fool.
The laundress washes her own smock first.
All things obey fixed laws.
Better no law than laws not enforced.
Good laws spring from bad morals.
He knows not the law who knows not the reason thereof.
He who is a law to himself no law does need.
In a thousand pounds of law there is not one ounce of love.
Keep the law and keep from the law.
Law cannot persuade where it cannot push.
Law is whatever is boldly asserted and plausibly maintained.
Law often codifies disorder and makes madness legal.
Laws are made to be broken.
Laws are made to be evaded.
Laws are silent when wars are waging.
Laws catch flies and let hornets go free.
Laws too gentle are seldom obeyed; too severe, seldom executed.
Necessity knows no law, but it is intimately acquainted with many lawyers.
No man is above the law, and no man is below it.
The greater the number of laws, the more thieves there will be.
The law is like an axle: you can turn it whichever way you please if you give it  plenty of grease.
The law of love is better than the love of law.
The law that codifies evil is the essence of lawlessness.
The laws of nature are immutable.
The more laws, the more offenders.
There are nine ways to make a law, ten ways to break a law, and eleven ways to  live within the law.
There is one law for the rich and another for the poor.
To go to law is to go to sea.
Where law ends, tyranny begins.
Where the law is uncertain, there is no law.
Where there's no law, there's no bread.
Who will have law must have money.
Lawmakers should not be lawbreakers.
Fond of lawsuits, little wealth; fond of doctors, little health.
If one family has a lawsuit, ten families are involved.
Lawsuits were invented to make lawyers rich.
The longer the lawsuit, the larger the lawyer's fee.
A good lawyer, a bad neighbor.
A man who is his own lawyer has a fool for a client.
Lawyer's gowns are lined with the willfulness of their clients.
Lawyers earn their bread in the sweat of their browbeating.
Lawyers, like painters, can easily change white into black.
Most good lawyers live well, work hard, and die poor.
No matter who loses, the lawyer always wins.
He who knows no laziness will know prosperity.
Laziness has no boosters but many pals.
Laziness isn't worth a thing if not well carried out.
Laziness travels so slow that poverty overtakes him.
A lazy man always finds excuses.
A lazy man is no better than a dead one, but he takes up more room.
A lazy man will live the longest.
A lazy man works the hardest.
A lazy person will never try to see the light.
Lazy folks are most efficient.
Lazy folks' stomachs don't get tired.
The lazy man goes to his work like a thief to the gallows.
The lazy man takes the most pain.
A man may be led, but he can't be driven.
No one can expect to lead others until he has learned to boss himself.
A good leader is also a good follower.
A rose leaf on the beaker's brim causes the overflow of the cup.
He that fears leaves must not come into a wood.
Just because there are no leaves on the trees doesn't mean there's no life in the  limbs.
There are leaves to every vine.
We all fade as the leaf.
Small leaks sink big ships.
The more you lean on somebody else, the leaner your chances of success.
If you take a leap in the dark, you usually land in a pit.
Easy to learn, hard to master.
He who never learns anything never forgets anything.
In order to learn, we must attend.
It is a task to learn, but it is much harder to unlearn.
It is never too late to learn.
Learn as you'd live forever; live as you'd die tomorrow.
Learn not, know not.
Learn something new every day.
Learn to know when you are well off.
Learn to unlearn what you have learned to miss.
Learn well and know better.
Lessons hard to learn are sweet to know.
Men learn while they teach.
We can only learn from our betters.
We learn by doing, achieve by pursuing.
We learn by mistakes.
We learn not for school but for life.
We learn not in school but in life.
What is learned is not forgotten.
What learn we best ken.
What we learn early we remember late.
You are never too wise to learn.
You can't learn any younger.
Write with the learned; pronounce with the vulgar.
A learned man can be appreciated only by another learned man.
A learned man is twice born.
A little learning is a bad thing.
Advance in learning as you advance in life.
It is only when we forget all our learning that we begin to know.
Learning has no enemy but ignorance.
Learning has no limit.
Learning makes a good man better and a bad man worse.
Learning makes a man fit company for himself.
Learning refines and elevates the mind.
Learning to the studious and riches to the careful.
Learning without thought is labor lost; thought without learning is dangerous.
Like unto like, and learning unto skill.
Men of learning are plain men.
Most of the learning in use is of no great use.
One pound of learning requires ten pounds of common sense to use it.
Too much learning is worse than no learning at all.
Wear your learning like your watch, in a private pocket.
Undo the leash and loosen the hound.
Least said, soonest mended.
That government is best which governs least.
Raw leather will stretch.
Better leave than take.
Leave well enough alone.
Never leave until tomorrow what you can do today.
Never leave until you know where you are going.
When in doubt, leave it out.
Too little leaven spoils the loaf.
A little leaver has the whole lump.
It's a poor pair of legs that will stand around and see the body bruised.
Stand on your own two legs.
What yo' laigs fails to do, yo' haid has to do.
A life of leisure and a life of laziness are two things.
Leisure breeds lust.
Leisure is a pretty garment; it won't do to wear it all the time.
Leisure is time for doing something useful.
Done leisurely, done well.
The lemon, after being squeezed, is thrown away.
Lend and lose is the game of fools.
Them as lends, spends.
Let the lender beware.
Those have a short Lent who owe money to be paid at Easter.
A leopard cannot change his spots.
The leopard is absent, so they play with the cubs.
You can't tell a leopard by its spots.
The less we know, the more we suspect.
The less you say, the less you have to take back.
A bought lesson is a good lesson.
An evil lesson is soon learned.
One of the lessons a woman never learns is never to talk to a drunken or angry  man.
You pay for every lesson you learn.
A love letter sometimes costs more than a three-cent stamp.
Do not close a letter without reading it.
Letters blush not.
It pays to be on the level.
The level of the woman is the level of the world.
A fish is caught by the mouth; the liar is caught by his tongue.
A liar is sooner caught than a cripple.
A liar is worse than a thief.
A liar should have a good memory.
Believe every man a liar until he proves himself true.
Each liar loves to hear himself talk.
It takes a liar to call someone a liar.
Liars begin by imposing on others but end by deceiving themselves.
Liars have short wings.
Liars never prosper.
No one believes a liar when he tells the truth.
Show me a liar and I'll show you a thief.
The biggest liar in the world is the man who starts out by saying, "They say.
There's no liar like an old liar.
Liberal hands make many friends.
Liberality consists less in giving much than in giving at the right time.
All men love liberty and seem bent on destroying her.
Give me liberty or give me death.
It is dangerous to take liberties with great men.
Lean liberty is better than fat slavery.
Liberty is not license.
Liberty is one thing you can't have unless you give it to others.
Liberty, like charity, must begin at home.
Like liberty, gold never stays where it is undervalued.
Little liberties are great offenses.
The ground of liberty must be gained by inches.
The love of liberty burns brightest in a dungeon.
There is no liberty without security, and no security without unity.
Your liberty ends where my nose begins.
A great library is the diary of the human race.
A library is a repository of medicine for the mind.
A library is but the soul's burial ground.
Libraries are not made; they grow.
Don't lick it till it drops.
Every lick counts.
If you can't lick 'em, jine 'em.
No lickin', no learnin'.
You're never licked until you admit it.
There's a lid for every pot.
A great lie is the best.
A lie begets a lie until they become a generation.
A lie can go a mile before the truth can put its boots on.
A lie can go around the world and back while the truth is lacing up its boots.
A lie has no legs.
A lie is like a snowball: the farther you roll it, the bigger it becomes.
A lie is the most difficult thing in the world permanently to conceal.
A lie runs until it is overtaken by the truth.
A lie stands on one leg, truth on two.
A lie will give blossom but no fruit.
A necessary lie is harmless.
A sudden lie has best luck.
A white lie leaves a black spot.
Be sure, a lie will find you out.
Dare to be true; nothing can need a lie.
He that tells a lie must invent twenty more to maintain it.
If you are going to tell a lie, tell it big enough so that no one will believe you.
If you believe a lie, it's a truth as far as you are concerned.
If you tell a lie an' stick to it, dat's as good as de truth anyhow.
It is as bad to believe a lie as to tell one.
Jesting lies bring serious sorrows.
Lies do harm only to them that tells 'em.
Misunderstanding brings lies to town.
Never tell a lie till the truth doesn't fit.
No lies are white; they are all black.
One lie does not justify another.
One lie leads to another.
One seldom meets a lonely lie.
Tell a lie and find the truth.
Tell a lie once, you are always a liar to that person.
Telling lies is a fault in a boy, an art in a lover, an accomplishment in a  bachelor, and second nature in a married woman.
The bigger the lie, the more it is believed.
There are a thousand ways to tell a lie, but only one way to tell the truth.
There is no lie, spun so fine, through which the truth won't shine.
"They say so" is half a lie.
White lies are but the ushers to black ones.
White lies save your soul; black lies damage your soul.
You can get far with a lie, but not come back.
You can't live down a lie.
A man who won't lie to a woman has very little consideration for her feelings.
He who lies once is never believed again.
If you lie, you steal.
It is better to be lied about than to lie.
It is better to lie a little than to be unhappy much.
A good life keeps away wrinkles.
A humble life with peace and quiet is better than a splendid one with danger  and risk.
A libertine's life is not a life of liberty.
A long life may not be good enough, but a good life is long enough.
An ill life, an ill end.
Don't spend your life reaching for the moon.
For a long life be moderate in all things, but don't miss anything.
For most people life is one bill after another.
He enjoys life who makes others enjoy it best.
He who saves another life adds years to his own.
Hidden life, happy life.
If life were a thing that money could buy, the rich would live and the poor  would die.
It's a great life if you don't weaken.
Life and misery begin together.
Life begins at forty.
Life can be beautiful.
Life consists in wishing you had if you didn't and wishing you hadn't if you did.
Life ends when honor ends.
Life is a bubble on the stream.
Life is a chart as well as a coast, and a little care will keep clear of rocks, reefs,  and sandbars.
Life is a comedy to those who think, a tragedy to those who feel.
Life is a jest.
Life is a light before the wind.
Life is a long lesson in humility.
Life is a mirror.
Life is a mystery that death alone may solve.
Life is a picture, so paint it well.
Life is a queer proposition.
Life is a song, but it often goes flat.
Life is a theater where the worst people sometimes get the best seats.
Life is an onion which one peels crying.
Life is but a bowl of cherries.
Life is but a dream.
Life is death without real friends, and money can't buy them.
Life is hard by the yard, but by the inch life's a cinch.
Life is just; it will give us all we earn.
Life is just one damned thing after another.
Life is just one parting after another.
Life is made up of little things.
Life is no bed of roses.
Life is not a cup to be drained, but a measure to be filled.
Life is not a push from below, but a gift from above.
Life is not so short but that there is always time enough for courtesy.
Life is not what you find, it's what you create.
Life is not wholly beer and skittles.
Life is one long process of getting tired.
Life is short and full o' blisters.
Life is short and sweet.
Life is short, and time is swift.
Life is subject to ups and downs.
Life is swell when you keep well.
Life is the flower of which love is the honey.
Life is too short to be little.
Life is too short to fool with dishonest people.
Life is too short to waste time on trifles.
Life is what you make it.
Life isn't life without a wife.
Life should be partly cakes and red geraniums.
Life without memories is like a rare food that the cook forgot to season.
Life's a gamble: you win or lose.
Life's a voyage that's homeward bound.
Life's fairest things are those which seem; the leaf is that of which we dream.
Life's jes pushin' 'side yo' troubles and lookin' for de light.
Life's race is either forward or backward.
Live as though life were earnest, and life will be so.
Live your life, do your work, then take your hat.
Live your life so that even the undertaker will be sorry when you die.
Live your own life, for you die your own death.
Make your life; don't copy it.
No life without pain.
Nothing is better than a single life.
Nothing is certain in life but death and taxes.
Plan your life as though you were going to live forever, but live today as if you  were going to die tomorrow.
Quite a life without a wife, worse with one.
Save your life and lose a minute.
The great secret of life is to hear lessons and not teach them.
The life you save may be your own.
The secret of life is not to do what you like but to like what you do.
The true value of life cannot be measured in dollars.
To a nitwit life is one laugh after another.
To lengthen your life, lessen your meals.
To save one life is better than to build a seven-story pagoda.
To widen your life without deepening it is only to weaken it.
Today life is our school; tomorrow our school is life.
Too many people conduct their life on the cafeteria style--self-service.
What makes life weary is lack of motive.
What you put into someone's life will someday come back into your own.
When there is life there is love.
Where there's life there is hope.
You get out of life what you put into it.
You have to work the life out of you to keep the life in you.
He is lifeless that is faultless.
Be a lifter, not a leaner.
A burned light will never shine.
Don't hide your light under a bushel.
Light is bad for sore eyes.
The best way to see divine light is to put out your own candle.
The light that shines farthest shines brightest at home.
There's a light in the window for those who look.
Travel in the light; rest in the night.
Turn the light on the braggart and he will run.
Where there is light there is shadow.
In rivers and bad government, the lightest things swim at top.
Many are lighter in the heels than in the heart.
Once light, always light.
Come light, go light.
Lightning never strikes in the same place twice.
When lightning strikes, you have no time to worry.
Every like ain't the same.
Like attracts like.
Like begets like.
The like breeds the like.
Gild the lily if you will; it remains a lily stIll.
Lilies don't spring from thistles.
Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds.
You can't paint the lily.
Don't cut the limb which bears your weight.
Lime and lime without manure makes the farmer rich and the son poor.
There's a limit to everything.
Know your limitations and go not beyond them.
Men cease to interest us when we find their limitations.
No man can climb out beyond the limitations of his own character.
Better to limp on the right road than to speed on the wrong one.
Hew to the line; let the chips fall where they may.
It's a long line that has no turning.
The shortest distance between two points is a straight line.
The thinnest line is between love and hate.
Don't air your dirty linens in public.
He who lingers is lost.
Always look for the silver lining.
Don't wake a sleeping lion.
It is better to live like a lion for a day than to live like a lamb for a hundred  years.
Even rosy lips must be fed.
Keep a stiff upper lip.
The lips of the righteous feed many, but fools die for want of wisdom.
The lips that touch liquor must never touch mine.
Good liquor will make a cat speak.
Liquor never hurt a cheap man.
Liquor talks mighty loud when it gets loose from the bottle.
If you don't listen, you have to feel.
Listen at the keyhole and you'll hear bad news about yourself.
Listen much and speak little.
Listen when spoken to.
A good listener is a silent flatterer.
If there were no listeners, there would be no liars.
Listen to him who is a good listener himself.
Listeners hear no good of themselves.
Good listening does not mean sitting dumb.
Literature has her quacks no less than medicine.
Literature is a bad crutch but a good walking stick.
Literature is the thought of thinking souls.
 A little along is better than a long none.
A little goes a long way.
A little is a big percent on nothing.
A little makes a lot.
A little too late is much too late.
Add little to little and there will be a great heap.
Every little helps.
Every little makes a nickel.
It's better to have a little than nothing.
Jack Little sows little, and little he'll reap.
Keep a little for a rainy day.
Little and often fills the purse.
Little by little does the trick.
Little by little one goes far.
Little is done where many command.
Little is given, little is expected.
Little is much if God is in it.
Little is much when the heart is in it.
Little said is soonest mended.
Say little; write less; print least.
Too little and too late.
Too little and too much spoil everything.
Use the little to get the big.
Who possesses little has the first right to it.
 A little man may have a large heart.
A little man sometimes casts a long shadow.
A little thing in hand is worth more than a great thing in prospect.
It's the little things in life that count.
It's the little things that smooth people's roads the most.
Little men have sharp wits.
Little things attract light minds.
Little things worry little minds.
 A man cannot live on air.
All wish to live long but not to be called old.
As a man lives, so shall he die; as a tree falls, so shall it lie.
Better to live well than long.
Everyone has to live.
He lives longest who lives best.
He lives twice who lives well.
He that lives carnally won't live eternally.
It does not matter so much where you live as how well you live there.
It matters not how long we live, but how.
Live and learn; die and forget all.
Live and let live.
Live for the present; plan for the future.
Live freely and die content.
Live today, for tomorrow may not come.
Live well in the present; the past is gone forever.
Live within yourself and you will be your own mourner.
Man cannot live by bread alone.
No man lives to himself, and no man dies to himself.
Only those are fit to live who are not afraid to die.
Tell me with whom you live and I will tell you who you are.
They that live longest must die at last.
To go slowly and to live a long time are two brothers.
To live long is to suffer long.
We can always live on less when we have more to live on.
We only live once.
Wish not so much to live long as to live well.
Be a live wire and you won't be stepped on.
High living, low thinking.
It takes a heap of living to make a home.
Living in luxury begets lustful desires.
Not living well isn't living at all.
Soft living hardens the head.
The man who makes an honest living is at peace with his maker.
They live ill who think of living always.
A load becomes light when cheerfully borne.
Carry your part of the load.
It's not the load that breaks you down, it's the way you carry it.
Cut your own loaf and you'll never be hungry.
Half a loaf is better than none.
Set not your loaf till the oven's hot.
A man who can't get up to loaf is too lazy to enjoy it.
The man who loafs most gets the fewest loaves.
A loan oft loses both itself and the friend.
Longing is better than loathing.
A lock on a door keeps honest men honest.
Locks keep out only honest people.
It is too late to lock the stable door when the steed is stolen.
Crooked logs make straight fires.
Hollow logs often rattle.
If you turn over a log, you may find a lot of things there besides worms.
The surest sign of age is loneliness.
Lonesomeness is the root of all evil.
Long is not forever.
Better to have it too long than too short.
It's a long lane that has no turn.
The longest way around is the shortest way home.
Long looked for comes at last.
Longing is better than loathing.
A cheerful look makes a dish a feast.
A single look is worth ten thousand words.
Clothes and looks don't make the person.
Don't judge everyone by his looks.
Good looks buy nothing in the market.
If you've good looks, you don't need any brains.
It's in the looks that conscious guilt appears.
Looks aren't everything.
Looks often deceive.
There's nothing in the looks of a lousy calf.
You can't get to heaven on your looks.
A good soldier never looks behind him.
 He that will not look before him will have to look behind him.
If you don't look out for yourself, nobody else will.
It's better to be looked over than overlooked.
Look and learn.
Look and live.
Look and you shall find.
Look before you leap.
Look high and fall low.
Look out for others and God will look out for you.
Look up, not down.
Those who look up see the stars.
Lookers-on see more than players.
She who loves the looking glass hates the saucepan.
There is no better looking glass than an old friend.
Your looking glass will tell you what none of your friends will.
A loose rope builds the best loop.
Some people depend too little on the Lord, and some people depend too much  on Him.
Speak not the Lord's name in vain.
The Lord chastises His own.
The Lord helps those who help themselves.
The Lord knows when to clip our wings.
The Lord makes a man, but the wife makes a husband.
The Lord never goes back on His own.
The Lord never helps him who sits on his ass and waits.
The Lord provides for the lame and lazy.
The Lord sends sun at one time, rain at another.
The Lord tempers the wind to the shorn lamb.
The Lord who gave can take away.
The Lord will provide.
Trust in the Lord, but keep your powder dry.
New lairds make new laws.
There are more lords in the world than brilliant wits.
Beware of him who has nothing to lose.
Lose as if you like it; win as if you were used to it.
Those that have must lose.
'Tis better to lose with a wise man than to win with a fool.
What you lose today you cannot gain tomorrow.
Who loses, rues.
You cannot lose what you haven't got.
A good loser never wins.
Better to be a good loser than a poor winner.
Give losers leave to talk.
Losers are always in the wrong.
The cheerful loser is a winner.
His loss is my gain.
It is worth a loss to find out what some people are.
All is not lost that is in danger.
Everyone has his lot and a wide world before him.
The only lot most men do not grumble at is their burial lot.
The louder you are at night, the quieter you'll be in morning.
Presents speak louder than words.
A louse not killed is sure to bite again.
The secret of being loved is being lovable.
 A small love forgives much, a great love forgives little, and a perfect love  forgives all.
Against love and fortune there is no defense.
Blind love mistakes a harelip for a dimple.
Brotherly love for brotherly love, but cheese for money.
Choose your love, then love your choice.
Everything leaves, but love remains.
First love, last love, best love.
Follow love and it will flee; flee love and it will follow you.
Great love from little things may grow.
He that falls in love with himself will have no rivals.
He that gives the laws of love is usually a bachelor.
He who forces love where none is found remains a fool the whole year round.
He who knows not love has no children.
If love interferes with your business, quit your business.
Love and eggs should be fresh to be enjoyed.
Love and hate are the two closest emotions.
Love and politics don't mix.
Love and scandal are the best sweeteners of tea.
Love and smoke cannot be hidden.
Love and the weather can never be depended upon.
Love asks faith and faith asks firmness.
Love at first sight is cured by a second look.
Love can be a blessing or a curse.
Love can make any place agreeable.
Love can melt the ice and the snow of the coldest regions.
Love can neither be bought nor sold; its only price is love.
Love cannot dwell with suspicion.
Love comes unseen.
Love comforts like sunshine after rain.
Love conquers all.
Love covers many faults.
Love cures coquetry.
Love cures the very wound it makes.
Love does much, but money does more.
Love enters man through his eyes, woman through her ears.
Love goes where it's sent.
Love grows cold when it is not mixed with good works.
Love has no law but the law of love.
Love hits everyone.
Love intoxicates a man; marriage sobers him.
Love is a deep well: a man may drink from it often, but he falls into it only  once.
Love is a disease which begins with a fever and ends with a pain.
Love is a friendship set afire.
Love is a little sighing and a little lying.
Love is a thirst that is never slaked.
Love is a tickling sensation around the heart.
Love is akin to hate.
Love is all beautiful.
Love is an ocean of emotion surrounded by expense.
Love is better than fame--and money is best of all.
Love is blind.
Love is never without jealousy.
Love is not merely saying, it is doing.
Love is not time's fool.
Love is sharper than stones and sticks.
Love is strong as death; jealousy is cruel as the grave.
Love is strongest in pursuit--friendship in possession.
Love is the master of all arts.
Love is the only fire against which there is no insurance.
Love is the only service that power cannot command and money cannot buy.
Love is the salt of life.
Love is the thing that lies in a woman's eyes, and lies, and lies, and lies.
Love is to be honored.
Love is where you find it.
Love knows no boundaries.
Love knows no jealousy.
Love knows no obstacles and grows with them.
Love knows no season.
Love lasts seven seconds; the fantasia lasts seven minutes; unhappiness lasts all  one's life.
Love laughs at locksmiths.
Love levels all inequalities.
Love lives in cottages as well as in courts.
Love makes all burdens light.
Love makes obedience light.
Love makes the world go round.
Love makes time pass; time makes love pass.
Love never dies of starvation, but often of indigestion.
Love never fails.
Love sees no faults.
Love sought is good, but given unsought is better.
Love takes away the sight, and matrimony restores it.
Love will creep where it cannot go.
Love will find a way.
Love's anger is fuel to love.
Mother love is blind.
Mother's love is best of all.
Off with the old love, on with the new.
Offended love is the most terrible.
Old love burns low when new love breaks.
Old love does not rust.
Old love is easily kindled.
One always returns to his first love.
Puppy love leads to a dog's life.
Show your love to win love.
The love light goes out when the gas bill comes in.
The path of true love never runs smooth.
The road to love is bumpy.
The slave's love is the master's lifeguard.
There are no ugly loves nor handsome prisons.
To be successful in love, one must know how to begin and when to stop.
When love is greatest, words are fewest.
When want comes in at the door, love flies out of the window.
Where love falls it lies, and even if it be on the manure pile.
Where there is no love, all faults are seen.
You can't control your love.
You can't live on love alone.
 He who loves last loves best.
He who loves much fears much.
He who loves well chastises well.
He who loves well will never forget.
If you would be loved, love and be lovable.
It is better to love someone you cannot have than have someone you cannot  love.
Love 'em and leave 'em.
Love all, trust few.
Love many; hate few; learn to paddle your own canoe.
Love me little and love me long.
Love me, love my dog.
Love who loves you and respond to who calls you.
Love wisely but not too well.
Men who love much will work much.
They do not love that do not show their love.
They love too much that die for love.
Those whom we love first we seldom wed.
To love and be wise is impossible.
To love is to live and to live is to love.
Whom we love best, to them we say least.
You haven't lived if you haven't loved.
A love letter sometimes costs more than a three-cent stamp.
A lover may sigh, but he must not puff.
A lover's anger is short-lived.
As is the lover, so is the beloved.
In the eye of the lover, pockmarks are dimples.
Lovers are fools.
Lovers are madmen.
Lovers think others blind.
Lovers, travelers, and poets will give money to be heard.
Once a lover, always a lover.
One can be a lover without sighing.
The falling out of lovers is the renewing of love.
The lover is often lost in the husband.
The sight of lovers feeds those in love.
There's nothing worse than an old lover.
True lovers are shy when people are by.
If there is anything better than to be loved, it is loving.
It takes a lot of loving to make a home.
It's loving and giving that make life worth living.
There is more pleasure in loving than in being in love.
Loyalty has lost its meaning if its memory is short.
 A pocketful of luck is better than a sackful of wisdom.
Bad luck can't be dated.
Bad luck comes in threes.
Bad luck is bad management.
Bad luck is good luck for someone.
Behind bad luck comes good luck.
Don't press luck too far.
Ef luck's against you, 'tain't no use to squirm and twis'.
Good luck beats early rising.
Good luck disappears like our hair; bad luck lasts like our nails.
Good luck is a lazy man's explanation of another's success.
Good luck never comes too late.
Hard luck can't last one hundred years.
If luck is with you, even your ox will give birth to a calf.
Luck and glass break easily.
Luck is a very good word if you put a "p" before it.
Luck is always against the man who depends upon it.
Luck is better than science.
Luck is for the few, death for the many.
Luck is not always a sign of wisdom.
Luck is often pluck.
Never trust to luck.
No telling which way luck or a half-broke steer is going to run.
The only sure thing about luck is that it will change.
There is no luck in laziness.
There's luck in leisure.
You never can tell the luck of a lousy calf.
You never know your luck till the wheel stops.
Better born lucky than rich.
He is lucky who forgets what cannot be mended.
If you're lucky, even your rooster will lay eggs.
Lucky at play, unlucky in love.
Lucky men need no counsel.
The lucky one must yet learn pain.
The nigger is luckier than the white man at night.
 Lunatics and fools make bad witnesses.
To a lunatic there is only one sane man in the world--himself.
The luxurious live to eat and drink; the wise eat and drink to live.
 He who wants luxuries, let him pay for them.
Learn the luxury of doing good.
Living in luxury begets lustful desires.
Lying is the first step to the prison gates.
A machine running is worth two standing still.
The magistrate should obey the law; the people should obey the magistrate.
He that buys magistry must sell justice.
A good maid sometimes makes a bad wife.
Maids want nothing but husbands, and when they have them they want  everything.
Old maids fancy nobody knows how to bring up children but them.
Praise a maid in the morning and the weather in the evening.
A maiden that is in love grows bolder without knowing it.
A neat maiden often makes a dirty wife.
If one will not, another will, so are all maidens wed.
Maidens should be mild and meek, swift to hear and slow to speak.
So goes Maine, so goes the nation.
The majority is often wrong.
The majority rules.
Under majority rule, heads are counted; under minority rule, heads are cracked.
Malice drinks its own poison.
Malice has a sharp sight and a strong memory.
Malice seldom wants a mark to shoot at.
There is as much malice in a wink as in a word.
Though malice may darken truth, it cannot put it out.
When there's more malice shown than matter, on the writer falls the satyr.
The malicious person keeps a viper in his breast.
A brave man is a fool.
A good man is seldom uneasy, an ill one never easy.
A man, a horse, and a dog never weary of each other's company.
A man among children will long be a child; a child among men will soon be a  man.
A man can be led, but he can't be driven.
A man can die but once.
A man can do a lot of things if he has to.
A man can do no more than he can.
A man can't be hanged for his thoughts.
A man cannot get away from his own shadow.
A man cannot live to himself alone.
A man chases a woman until she catches him.
A man convinced against his will is of the same opinion still.
A man dies; his name remains.
A man doesn't want a woman smarter than he is.
A man is a product of his words.
A man is as big as the thing that bothers him.
A man is as good as he has to be; a woman is as bad as she dares.
A man is as old as he feels, a woman as old as she feels like admitting.
A man is as strong as his will.
A man is as young as he feels.
A man is king in his home.
A man is known by the company he keeps.
A man is known by the paper he pays for.
A man is newly married who tells his wife everything.
A man is no better than his word.
A man is of little use when his wife is a widow.
A man is only as good as his weakest moment.
A man is only half a man without a wife.
A man is shy in another man's corner.
A man is what the winds and the tides have made him.
A man makes of himself what he will.
A man may be deprived of life, but a good name can't be taken from him.
A man may be down, but he's never out.
A man may be too little to be big.
A man may smile and smile and still be a villain.
A man never becomes an orator if he has anything to say.
A man should not stick his nose in his neighbor's pot.
A man thinks he knows, but a woman knows better.
A man who is not spoken of is not abused.
A man who is wise is only as wise as his wife thinks he is.
A man who really amounts to something tries to amount to more.
A man who wishes to keep a secret should tell nothing in confidence.
A man without a country is like a man without a soul.
A man without a religion is a horse without a bridle.
A man without a woman is like a ship without a sail.
A man without ambition is like a woman without beauty.
A man without books is like a king without money.
A man without money is like a ship without a sail.
A man without money is no man at all.
A man without purpose is like a ship without a rudder.
A man wrapped up in himself makes a very small bundle.
A poor man is always behind.
A rich man never lacks relatives.
A selfish man is always alone.
A stingy man is always poor.
Act like a man of means, not like a mean man.
All men are born free and equal.
All men are created equal.
All men are fools, but all fools are not men.
All men must die.
An old man in a house is a good sign.
An old man is twice a boy.
An old young man will be a young old man.
Any man can do what another man has done.
As a man is, so he sees.
As a man lives, so shall he die; as a tree falls, so shall it lie.
As a man thinks, so he is.
As many men, so many opinions.
As wave follows wave, so new men take old men's places.
Beware of men made of clay.
Beware of no man but yourself.
Choose your man as you choose your shoes--for comfort and long wear.
Don't be a yes-man.
Don't value a man for the quality he is of, but for the qualities he possesses.
Every man can tame a shrew but he that has one.
Every man dies as he must.
Every man drags water to his own mill.
Every man for himself.
Every man has a fool up his sleeve.
Every man has a price.
Every man has a right to be conceited.
Every man has got to kill his own snakes.
Every man has his faults.
Every man has one black patch, and some have two.
Every man in his own way.
Every man is a volume if you know how to read him.
Every man is his own enemy.
Every man is occasionally what he ought to be perpetually.
Every man knows where his own shoe pinches.
Every man must have his mate.
Every man must pay his Scot.
Every man must pull his own weight.
Every man must skin his own skunk.
Every man must sow his wild oats.
Every man must stand on his own two feet.
Every man should measure himself by his own foot rule.
Every man stamps his value upon himself.
Every man to his own opinion.
Every man to his own poison.
Every man to his taste.
Every man to his trade.
Every man will be a poet if he can.
Every man would live long, but no woman would be old.
Every thing comes to a man who does not need it.
Every time you forgive a man, you weaken him and strengthen yourself.
Give a man enough rope and he will hang himself.
Honest men marry soon, wise men not at all.
If a man empties his purse into his head no one can take it from him.
If men talked about what they understood, the silence would be unbearable.
If what men most admire they would despise, 'twould look as if mankind were  growing wise.
If you must strike a man from behind, slap him on the back.
It is better for a town to be governed by a good man than by good laws.
It is far easier to know men than to know man.
It is man that makes truth great, and not truth that makes man great.
It is the men that make the city.
It's better to be an old man's sweetheart than a young man's slave.
It's the easiest thing in the world for a man to deceive himself.
Just because a man sings, it's no sign he's happy.
Let another man praise you, not your own mouth.
Look twice at a two-faced man.
Man can't live in this world alone.
Man cannot live by bread alone.
Man changes often but gets better seldom.
Man gets and forgets; woman gives and forgives.
Man has his will, but woman has her way.
Man is a bubble.
Man is a hunter; woman is his game.
Man is a poor stick and a sad squirt.
Man is a wolf to man.
Man is generally led the way which he is inclined to go.
Man is greater than the tools he invents.
Man is his own master.
Man is his own worst enemy.
Man is like a banana: when he leaves the bunch, he gets skinned.
Man is made by little things.
Man is straw, woman fire--and the devil blows.
Man is supreme lord and master of his own ruin and disaster.
Man is the master of all.
Man is the measure of all things.
Man is the only animal that can be skinned twice.
Man is what he eats.
Man marches on; time is.
Man never acts at variance to his nature.
Man pays, but woman spends.
Man proposes, God disposes.
Man reigns, but woman rules.
Man stumbles over pebbles but never over mountains.
Man wants but little here below, nor wants that long.
Man works from sun to sun, but a woman's work is never done.
Many a man sees a wolf at the door because his wife saw a mink in the window.
Men and melons are hard to know.
Men apt to promise are apt to forget.
Men are always wooing goddesses and marrying mere mortals.
Men are best loved furthest off.
Men are born the slaves of women.
Men are but children of a larger growth.
Men are like steel: when they lose their temper, they are no good.
Men are like streetcars: there's always another coming along.
Men are neither suddenly rich nor suddenly good.
Men are not to be measured by inches.
Men are what their mothers made them.
Men build houses; women build homes.
Men grow weaker and wiser.
Men, like bullets, go farther when polished.
Men may blush to hear what they are not ashamed to act.
Men may meet, though mountains cannot.
Men must work and women must weep.
Men, not gold, make a nation.
Men often condemn others for what they see no wrong in doing themselves.
Men seek less to be instructed than applauded.
Men seldom make passes at girls who wear glasses.
Men talk wisely but live foolishly.
Men walk backwards like crabs and think they are making progress.
Men who love much will work much.
Men's skins have many colors, but human blood is always red.
Men's years and their faults are always more than they are willing to own.
Merely to silence a man is not to persuade him.
Most men would rather say a smart thing than do a good one.
Mothers make men.
No man can flay a stone.
No man can serve two masters.
No man ever became extremely wicked at once.
No man ever got lost on a straight road.
No man e'er was glorious who was not laborious.
No man has a right to all his rights.
No man has looked upon the morrow's sun.
No man is above the law, and no man is below it.
No man is better than he wants to be.
No man is dead till he's dead.
No man is free who is not master of himself.
No man is hurt by himself.
No man is more than his brother if he does not do more than his brother.
No man is necessary.
No man is so old but thinks he may live another day.
No man is so tall but what he sometimes has to reach.
No man is wise at all times.
No man lives to himself, and no man dies to himself.
No man or nation can go up by heading down.
Once a man, twice a child.
One man does not make a team.
One man in the apartment is worth two on the street.
One man may be more cunning than another, but not more cunning than  everybody else.
Only an old man has patience enough to plant a tree.
Power flows to the man who knows how.
Show me the man that does not make a mistake, and I will show you the man  that does not do anything.
Six feet under makes all men equal.
Some men are merriest when far from home.
Some men have a short arm for giving and a long arm for getting.
Some men, like blisters, only show up when the work is done.
The best of men are but men after all.
The bigger the man, the better the mark.
The last man to admit he is wrong is himself.
The man most down on a thing is he who is least up on it.
The man that aims at nothing usually gets it.
The man that's worthwhile is the man that can smile.
The man who believes is the man who achieves.
The man who does not know himself is a poor judge of the other fellow.
The man who gets in a stew is small potatoes.
The man who gets in wet weather is all washed up.
The man who leaves the flock must fight wolves.
 The man who says it can't be done is liable to be knocked down by someone  doing it.
The man who turns against his own side soon finds both sides against him.
The poor man pays for all.
The way to a man's heart is through his stomach.
The worse the man the better the soldier.
There are two good men--one dead, the other unborn.
Things turn out for the man who digs.
To find out what a man is like, find out what he does in his spare time.
Trust every man, but cut the cards.
What man makes, man can destroy.
What man has done, man can do.
When a man marries, his life begins.
When a man marries, his troubles begin; when a man dies, his trouble ends.
When a man takes a wife, he ceases to dread hell.
When a man's away, abuse him you may.
When a man's single, his pockets will jingle.
Where one man goes, others will follow.
You can't afford to snub a man built on the million dollar plan.
You can't fool the old man.
You can't live with men; neither can you live without them.
You cannot be a true man until you learn to obey.
You never know a man until you bed with him a winter and summer.
Good management is better than good income.
Mankind lives on promises.
Bad manners are a species of bad morals.
Good manners are made up of petty sacrifices.
Ill manners produce good laws.
Manners are more than meat, and morals more than manners.
Manners make the man.
Striking manners are bad manners.
The test of good manners is being able to put up pleasantly with bad ones.
Many are called, but few are chosen.
A warm March will bring a cold April.
March is in like a lion, out like a lamb.
March winds and April showers bring May flowers.
He that speaks ill of the mare will buy her.
The old gray mare ain't what she used to be.
Toe the mark.
There's no good market for bad eggs or rotten bananas.
A shotgun marriage won't last longer than the honeymoon.
If more people tried as hard to stay married as they do to get married, fewer  marriages would go on the rocks.
Marriage and hanging go by destiny.
Marriage is a game best played by two winners.
Marriage is a lottery.
Marriage is a quick solution to more problems.
Marriage is a romance novel in which the hero dies in the first chapter.
Marriage is an institution for the blind.
Marriage is both heaven and hell.
Marriage is like a tub of water: after a while, it is not so hot.
Marriages are made in heaven.
Where there's marriage without love, there will be love without marriage.
Before you marry, 'tis well to tarry.
If you marry a beautiful blonde, you marry trouble.
If you marry for money, you sell your freedom.
Marry above your match and you get a master.
Marry first and love will follow.
Marry in haste and repent at leisure.
Marry late or never.
The day you marry, it is either kill or cure.
To marry once is a mistake; to marry twice is fatal.
God's martyr is never the devil's servant.
A bad master makes a bad servant.
As the master is, so is his dog.
Be master of your anger.
Everyone has his master.
Like master, like man.
Masters are made, not born.
To be the master of others, one must first be the master of himself.
You are master of the unspoken word; the spoken word is master of you.
If you play with matches, you will get burned.
Matrimony is not a word but a sentence.
A good maxim is never out of season.
What you put off and what you put on, never change till May be gone.
Maybes don't fly this time of year.
Many a meal is lost for want of meat.
Unquiet meals make ill digestions.
You can't eat a square meal off a round table.
It's easy to bake when the meal is beside you.
You can't get meal from an empty sack.
No matter how important you are, you can catch the measles.
Measure is a treasure.
There is a measure in all things.
When the measure is full, it runs over.
Without measure medicine will become poison.
Better twice measured than once wrong.
Measure twice before you cut once.
After meat comes mustard.
All meat is to be eaten, and all maids to be wed.
One man's meat is another man's poison.
They that have no other meat gladly bread and butter eat.
You can't tell how much meat there is in the smokehouse by feeling the roof.
Every medal has its reverse.
Medicine can prolong life, but death will seize the doctor, too.
Medicines were not meant to live on.
There is a medicine for all things except death and taxes.
The meek are terrible in their wrath.
The meek shall inherit the earth.
Eat your melons and don't ask about the melon bed.
All complain for want of memory, but none for want of judgment.
Memory is the watchman of the brain.
No man has a good enough memory to be a successful liar.
Our memory is always at fault, never our judgment.
The memory of a great love is kept green forever.
There is no memory which time does not erase.
You don't trust to memory.
It's never too late to mend.
A merchant's happiness hangs upon luck.
Merchants love nobody.
We are merchants today and beggars tomorrow.
Be merciful to those who show mercy.
It's safer to err on the side of mercy.
Great merit is coy, as well as great pride.
Make a merit of necessity.
Merit is sure to rise to the surface.
True merit is like a river: the deeper it is, the less noise it makes.
A merry man is usually a fool.
Be merry and wise.
Merry meet, merry part.
Don't get off the merrygo-round before it stops.
Method is the very hinge of business.
Method will teach you to win time.
Many a mickle makes a muckle.
Keep in the middle of the road.
A middle course is the safest.
Do what you do with all your might: things half done are never done right.
Might makes right.
The first mile is always the hardest.
A penny's worth of milk brings a dollar's worth of health.
Don't cry over spilled milk.
If you give your milk to the cat, you must drink water out of the sink.
Once milk becomes sour, it can't be made sweet again.
You can't pick up spilled milk.
Enter the mill and you come out floury.
Mills won't grind if you give them no water.
No mill, no meal; no will, no deal.
The mill cannot grind with the water that is past.
The mills of the gods grind slowly, but they grind exceedingly fine.
In for a mill, in for a million.
The lower millstone grinds as well as the upper.
A busy mind breeds no evil.
A contented mind is a continual feast.
A good mind possesses a kingdom.
A mind diseased cannot bear anything harsh.
A proud mind and a light purse are ill met.
A ruffled mind makes a restless pillow.
A sound mind, a sound body.
A willing mind makes a light foot.
A woman's mind is like winter wind.
All great minds run in the same channel.
An idle mind is the devil's workshop.
Great minds discuss ideas; average minds discuss events; small minds discuss  people.
Little minds are tamed and subdued by misfortune, but great minds rise above  it.
Little minds, like weak liquors, are soon soured.
Mind is the great lever of all things.
Mind unemployed is mind unenjoyed.
Small minds are lured by trifles.
The mind made up is no mind at all.
The mind of the man is the man.
Two minds are better than one.
A minute lost in the morning is never regained all day.
A minute on the lips is a lifetime on the hips.
Look out for the minutes and the hours will look out for themselves.
Can't probe mire 'thout getting sullied.
If you stir up the mire, you must bear the smell.
The more you linger in the mire, the more you foul yourself.
 There is no better mirror than an old friend.
When you look at yourself in the mirror, you look at a fool.
A cent of mirth is worth a dollar of grief.
Mirth prolongs life.
A little mischief is a little too much.
All mischief comes from the opening of the mouth.
He that mischief hatches, mischief catches.
Mischief comes by the pound and goes by the ounce.
When you plot mischief for others, you're preparing trouble for yourself.
A miser grows rich by seeming poor.
A miser is an ass that carries gold and eats thistles.
A miser's son is a spendthrift.
A rich miser is poorer than a poor man.
To ask a miser for a handout is like begging a naked man to give you his  clothes.
To be a miser is to be unhappy.
A man is twice miserable when he fears his misery before it comes.
He bears misery best who hides it most.
Misery loves company.
Misery makes strange bedfellows.
Misery never comes singly.
Don't rejoice about your neighbor's misfortunes, for the same may happen to  you.
Go fast and you'll catch up with misfortune; walk slow and it will catch up with  you.
Misfortune arrives on horseback but departs on foot.
Misfortunes cause queer bedfellows.
Misfortunes make us wise.
Misfortunes seldom come alone.
The greatest misfortune of all is not to be able to bear misfortune.
The man born to misfortune will fall on his back and fracture his nose.
The misfortunes hardest to bear are those which never come.
We can always bear our neighbors' misfortunes.
A miss is as good as a mile.
You never miss what you never had.
It takes more than crossing an ocean to make a missionary.
 Better a mistake avoided than two corrected.
Don't make the same mistake twice.
He who makes no mistakes is a fool.
He who never made a mistake never made anything.
He who talks much makes many mistakes.
Learn from the mistakes of others.
Let not the mistakes of yesterday or the fear of tomorrow spoil today.
Mistakes are often the best teachers.
Mistakes don't make haystacks.
Mistakes will happen.
One foolish mistake can undo a lifetime of happiness.
The one and only serious mistake is to be afraid of making mistakes.
There's many a mistake made on purpose.
 We learn by our mistakes.
If you want to keep your mister, don't introduce the baby sister.
If you can kiss the mistress, never kiss the maid.
Misunderstanding brings lies to town.
The mob has many heads but no brains.
Moderation in all things.
Moderation is the best means.
Modest dogs miss much meat.
Modesty has more charm than beauty.
Modesty is a quality in a lover more praised by the woman than liked.
Modesty is the sweet songbird which no open cage door can tempt to flight.
Modesty, when she goes, is gone forever.
Mohammed has to go to the mountain--the mountain will not come to him.
Molasses attracts more flies than vinegar.
Mole don't see w'at his neighbor's doin'.
When seeking the mole, forget not the eagle.
Spare moments are the gold dust of time.
Monday is the key of the week.
Monday religion is better than Sunday procession.
So goes Monday, so goes all the week.
All money is clean, even if it's dirty.
Bad money always comes back.
Bad money drives out good.
Don't marry for money, but don't marry without money.
Don't spend all your money in one place.
Don't throw good money after bad.
Earn money before you spend it.
Get the money honestly if you can.
He that gets money before he gets wit will be a short while master of it.
He that is of the opinion money will do everything may well be suspected of  doing everything for money.
He that marries for money earns it.
It is better to tell your money where to go than to ask it where it went.
It's a good thing to have money and have things money can buy, and it is a good  thing to check up and make sure you haven't lost the things that money can't  buy.
Lend money and you get an enemy.
Losing comes from winning money.
Make money your servant, not your master.
Money and man a mutual friendship show: man makes false money; money  makes man so.
Money answers all things.
Money begets money.
Money borrowed is money spent.
Money borrowed is soon sorrowed.
Money burns a hole in the pocket.
Money can't buy happiness.
Money comes like earth scooped up with a needle; it goes like sand washed  away by water.
Money doesn't get dirty.
Money doesn't grow on trees.
Money doesn't make character.
Money doesn't make the man.
Money greases the axle.
Money greases the machine in the long run.
Money has little value to its possessor unless it has value to others.
Money has wings.
Money helps some people some, but love does more.
Money in the purse will always be in fashion.
Money is a bottomless sea in which honor, conscience, and truth may be  drowned.
Money is a universal language speaking any tongue.
Money is better spent than spared.
Money is honey, my little sonny, and a rich man's joke is always funny.
Money is like manure: it's only good when spread around.
Money is power.
Money is round and rolls away.
Money is the root of all evil.
Money is the sinews of love as well as of war.
Money isn't everything in life.
Money isn't worth a thing except to use in buying something.
Money, like promises, is easier made than kept.
Money lost is never gained.
Money lost, nothing lost; courage lost, much lost; honor lost, more lost; soul  lost, all lost.
Money makes a man laugh.
Money makes the ball roll.
Money makes the mare go.
Money makes the pot boil.
Money makes the wheels go round.
Money makes the world go round.
Money mars and money makes.
Money never comes out of season.
Money reaches its highest value when we have none.
Money recommends a man everywhere.
Money saved is money earned.
Money talks.
Money when counted, woman when spanked, is OK.
Money will be a slave or a master.
Money will do anything.
More money, more sin.
Never loan money to a friend unless you wish to lose him.
Never spend your money before you have it.
Nothing but money is sweeter than honey.
Nothing like a little money in the sock to give you self-confidence.
One never gets more than one's money's worth of anything.
People are funny about money.
Put not your trust in money, but put your money in trust.
Put your money where your mouth is.
Ready money is ready medicine.
Save your money and die rich.
The best way to double your money is to fold it and put it back in your pocket.
The money one gets the wrong way never does one any good.
The money paid, the work delayed.
The value of money lies in what we do with it.
There are some things that money can't buy.
Those who have money have trouble about it.
Those who spend money will never build a porcelain palace.
When a man says money can do anything, it's a sure sign he hasn't got any.
When money flies out the window, love flies out the door.
When money speaks, truth keeps its mouth shut.
When you ain't got no money, well, you needn't come around.
When you look for money, all you get is sympathy.
Who puts up the money does the talking.
There is no need of a mongoose where there are no snakes.
Dress a monkey as you will, it remains a monkey still.
Even a monkey will fall from a tree sometimes.
Every monkey has his tale.
Monkey knows what tree to climb.
Monkey see, monkey do.
Monkeys in hard times eat red peppers.
The moon doesn't give a hoot when the dog barks at her.
Good morals and good manners are sworn friends.
It is one thing to keep your morals on a high plane; it's another to keep up with  them.
The more you have, the more you want.
The more you put into a thing, the more you get out.
The more the merrier.
A foul morn turns into a fine day.
Morning hour has gold in its mouth.
Morons will be morons.
Make the most of what you have.
A mother wants her daughter married well, but her sister doesn't want her  married better than she is.
As is the mother, so is the daughter.
If you don't obey your mother, you will obey your stepmother.
Mother knows best.
No mother has a homely child.
Observe the mother and take the daughter.
The mother-in-law remembers not that she was a daughter-in-law.
Don't make a mountain of a molehill.
It is harder to climb the mountain than to climb down.
One cannot climb mountains by looking at them.
One must first scale the mountain in order to view the plain.
The mountain labored and brought forth a mouse.
The mountains are never so far apart but the animals find one another.
Two men may meet, but never two mountains.
Better a mouse in the pot than no flesh at all.
It's a good rule to never send a mouse to catch a skunk, or a pollywog to tackle  a whale.
The mouse that has but one hole is soon caught.
Build a better mousetrap and catch a larger rat.
Build a better mousetrap and the world will beat a path to your door.
Don't let the mousetrap smell of blood.
A closed mouth catches no flies.
A still mouth makes a wise head.
Keep your mouth shut and your eyes open.
Large mouth, small manners.
No mouth speaks louder than the cannon's mouth.
When you get into deep water, keep your mouth shut.
Whosoever keeps his mouth and his tongue keeps his soul from trouble.
Three moves are as bad as a fire.
Much never costs little.
Do not walk in the mud when there is a dry path.
He who is in the mud loves to pull another in.
He who plays in the mud is bound to get dirty.
He who slings mud loses ground.
No mud can soil us but the mud we throw.
You can't touch mud without getting a little on you.
Muddy water won't do for a mirror.
 Better your own mule than someone else's mule.
He that rides the mule shoes her.
Mules don't kick according to rules.
One-eyed mule can't be handled on the blind side.
When a mule is kicking, he is not pulling; and when he is pulling, he is not  kicking.
When a mule kicks you, consider the source.
When you see a mule's fixin' to throw you, you jes' git off.
You may lead a mule to water, but you can't make him drink.
Murder will out.
It takes more muscle to frown than to laugh.
The muses starve in a cookshop.
Music has charm to soothe the savage breast.
Music is the key to the female heart.
Music will not cure the toothache.
Where there is music, there can be no harm.
Must is a hard nut to crack.
When you must, you better.
Some mysteries are better left unexplained.
 A nail can go no farther than its head will let it.
A nail that sticks out is struck.
Do not hang all on one nail.
Drive not a second nail till the first be clinched.
For the want of a nail, the shoe was lost; for want of a shoe, the horse was lost;  for want of a horse, the rider was lost.
One nail drives out another.
Naked men never lose anything.
Naked we came, naked we go.
There's no use trying to strip a naked man.
A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches.
A good name is sooner lost than won.
A good name will shine forever.
Big names often stand on small legs.
Get a good name of early rising, and you may lie abed.
He who has a bad name is half hanged.
If the bullet has your name on it, you'll get it.
If you have the name, you might as well have the game.
Names break no bones.
The name lasts longer than the dame.
The name may not spoil the man, but the man may spoil the name.
Narrowness of waist shows narrowness of mind.
A nation that lives by the dole shall perish by the dole.
It is natural to want what you can't get.
Drive nature out of the door and it will return by the window.
Good nature is stronger than tomahawks.
If nature be deceptive, repair it by industry.
Let nature take its course.
Nature abhors a vacuum.
Nature abhors the old.
Nature and love cannot be hid.
Nature does nothing in vain.
Nature ever makes false weight.
Nature is not made.
Nature is stronger than education.
Nature is usually wrong.
Nature makes women to be won and men to win.
Nature passes nurture.
Nature takes care of everything.
Nature will out.
Wherever nature does least, man does most.
You cannot break the rules of nature and get by with it.
Naught from naught and nothing remains.
Naught is never in danger.
Naught from naught you can't.
Naught's a naught and figger's a figger-all for de white man and none for de  nigger.
Join the Navy and see the world.
Pretty near ain't quite.
So near and yet so far.
Nearly never did any good.
Nearly never did any harm.
Better be neat and tidy than tight and needy.
Comply cheerfully where necessity enjoins.
It is best to prepare for the days of necessity.
Necessity and opportunity may make a coward valiant.
Necessity does everything well.
Necessity has a greater power than duty.
Necessity is a good teacher.
Necessity is a hard master.
Necessity is the argument of tyrants and the creed of slaves.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
Necessity knows no law.
Necessity makes a naked woman spin.
Necessity makes strange bedfellows.
Necessity never made a good bargain.
Necessity sharpens industry.
Better bend the neck than bruise the forehead.
Don't stick your neck out.
He who is to break his neck finds the stairs in the dark.
Take care of your neck in old age.
Need makes a naked man run.
Need makes the old wife trot.
Needs must when necessity drives.
One man's need is another man's poison.
When in great need, anything will do.
It is a fine thing to make yourself needed.
A needle is sharp only at one end.
Needles and pins: when a man marries, his trouble begins.
Where the needle goes, the thread follows.
A little neglect may breed great mischief Rec.
Neglect kills injuries; revenge increases them.
Present neglect makes future regret.
Great negligence is equal to intentional wrong.
Gross negligence is a fault; gross fault is a fraud.
Nothing is easy to the negligent.
A Negro that can't sing ain't worth nothing.
A close neighbor is better than a faraway relative.
A good neighbor is a fellow who smiles at you over the back fence but doesn't  climb it.
A good neighbor is a precious thing.
A man that flatters his neighbor spreads a net for his feet.
A neighbor is a person who knows more about your business than you do.
As you measure your neighbor he will measure back to you.
Be better to your neighbors and you will have better neighbors.
Better a neighbor near than a brother far.
Do not judge your neighbor unless you are in his situation.
For neighbors to keep a friendly tone is equal to finding a precious stone.
Go not unto your neighbor's place too often lest he tire of you.
He who prays for his neighbor will be heard for himself.
If your neighbor can't smile, lend him yours.
It is discouraging to be a good neighbor in a bad neighborhood.
Love your neighbor as yourself.
Love your neighbor, but do not pull down the fence.
Love your neighbor, but leave his wife alone.
Neighbors are good when they are neighborly.
No one can love his neighbor on an empty stomach.
No one is rich enough without a neighbor.
She who wishes to keep ahead of her neighbor must go to bed at sundown and  get up at dawn.
The best neighbors are vacant lots.
To be a good neighbor, take heed to your tongue.
When the neighbor's house is on fire, beware of your own.
When your neighbor's house declines, beware the possibilities of your own.
Who has a good neighbor has a good friend.
Whoever steals the neighbor's shirt usually dies without his own.
You must visit your neighbors lest an unused path becomes weedy.
He who is neither one thing or the other has no friends.
One must have an iron cage of nerves to hold a tiger in the breast.
Feather your own nest.
God makes a nest for the blind bird.
He that feathers his nest must sleep in it.
He that has feathered his nest may flee when he likes.
Don't set the net after the fish have gone by.
In vain the net is spread in the sight of any bird.
Stroke a nettle and it will sting you; grasp it and it is as soft as silk.
Never is a long time.
Never say die.
Never say never.
Never be the first by whom the new is tried nor yet the last to lay the old aside.
The new is what has been forgotten.
There's forever something new to be found in friends.
There's nothing new under the sun.
Bad news travels fast.
He comes too early who brings bad news.
He knocks boldly who brings good news.
He that tells his wife news is but newly married.
News is as good as a visit.
News spreads like wildfire.
No news is good news.
There's no news like good news.
We cannot control the news we get, but we can control the news we start.
What's one man's news is another man's troubles.
Whenever everybody tends to his own business, news is scarce.
Newspapers are the schoolmaster of the common people.
If you can't say something nice about someone, don't say anything.
A quick nickel is better than a slow dollar.
Don't take any wooden nickels.
Take care of the nickels and the dollars will take care of themselves.
A nickname is the heaviest stone the devil can throw at a man.
A nickname lasts forever.
Nicknames are stick-names.
A hungry nigger makes a clean dish.
Hit's a mighty deaf nigger dat don't hear de dinner ho'n.
Hungry nigger won't w'ar his maul out.
The only good nigger is a dead nigger.
A blustering night, a fair day.
Night brings out the stars.
Night brings the cows home.
The darker the night, the brighter the candle.
The longest night must end.
The night has a thousand eyes.
The night washes what the day has soaped.
What is done in the night appears in the day.
A nightingale won't sing in a cage.
Nits make lice.
Better say no before marriage than Reno after.
He's no man who can't say no.
Learn to say no.
True nobility lies in worth, not birth.
The more noble, the more humble.
It is better to be nobly remembered than to be nobly born.
The nobly born must nobly do.
Nobody is perfect.
Nobody is trodden on lest he lies down first.
A nod is as good as a wink to a blind horse.
A little nonsense now and then is relished by the best of men.
Nonsense is often mistaken for sense.
A big nose never spoiled a handsome face.
A dog's nose is always cold.
A person who looks down his nose at people will never see beyond that nose.
Don't cut off your nose to spite your face.
He that has a great nose thinks everybody is speaking of it.
Keep your nose clean.
Keep your nose out of other people's business.
Keep your nose to the grindstone.
Keep your nose to yourself and it won't be cut off.
Let your nose go in front, but don't always follow it.
Beware of him who has nothing to lose.
By doing nothing we learn to do ill.
Expect nothing and you won't be disappointed.
From nothing, nothing is made.
He has hard work indeed who has nothing to do.
He who knows nothing never doubts.
Hide nothing from your minister, physician, and lawyer.
If a thing is to be done for nothing, do it for yourself Rec.
If you have nothing, you've got nothing to lose.
Nothing can ever need a lie.
Nothing can last forever.
Nothing comes out that is not put in.
Nothing down, nothing up.
Nothing enters into a closed hand.
Nothing happens for nothing.
Nothing is beautiful from every point of view.
Nothing is certain but death and taxes.
Nothing is ever as bad as you think it is going to be, and nothing is ever as good  as you think it is going to be.
Nothing is gained without work.
Nothing is impossible to a willing heart.
Nothing is impossible to a willing mind.
Nothing is perfect.
Nothing succeeds like success.
Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
Nothing worth having ever comes without a lot of hard work.
To do nothing is the way to be nothing.
Who accepts nothing has nothing to return.
Who dares nothing need hope for nothing.
Who does nothing can do nothing wrong.
You get nothing for nothing.
Everybody to their own notion.
Men will do anything for novelty.
Novelty is the great parent of pleasure.
The novelty of noon is out of date by night.
'Tis novelty that sets the people a-gaping.
You can't get nowhere without going.
'Tis not in numbers but in unity that our great strength lies.
 A nurse spoils a good housewife.
Nurses make the worst patients.
Nurses put one bit in the child's mouth and two in their own.
With seven nurses a child will be without eyes.
Sweetest nuts have the hardest shells.
Great oaks from little acorns grow.
Don't lean on the oars.
An unlawful oath is better broken than kept.
Eggs and oaths are easily broken.
He who readily takes oath seldom swears to the truth.
Sow your wild oats and pray for a crop failure.
Obedience is better than sacrifice.
Obedience is the first duty of a child.
By learning to obey, you will know how to command.
We can not always oblige, but we can always speak obligingly.
Obscurity often brings safety.
When you have no observers, be afraid of yourself.
Obstacles are the stepping-stones to success.
Obstacles make the goal clearer.
The greater the obstacle, the more glory in overcoming it.
Obstinacy is most positive when it is most in the wrong.
Obstinacy is the strength of the weak.
The obstinate man does not hold opinions; his opinions hold him.
Absence of occupation is not rest; a mind quite vacant is a mind in distress.
Constant occupation prevents temptation.
The whole ocean is made up of little drops.
People usually get at odds with each other when they try to get even.
There is no odor so bad as that which arises from goodness tainted.
The offender never pardons.
A good offense is the best defense.
Neither give nor take offense.
Public office is a public trust.
The office makes the man.
An honest official has no fat subordinates.
Officials have good jobs waiting for them in the next world.
A spoonful of oil on the troubled waters goes farther than a quart of vinegar.
If there is no oil in the lamp, the wick is wasted.
Oil and water don't mix.
Put the oil where the squeak is.
To pour oil on the fire is not the way to quench it.
When the oil is exhausted, the lamp dies out.
When you strike oil, quit boring.
Oil not, neither will you spin.
Oilfields get in your blood.
Golden ointment is no cure for a wound of the heart.
Precious ointments come in small boxes.
Don't throw away the old till you know the new is better.
Look for the old so as to learn the new.
The old forget; the young don't know.
Use the old before getting new.
A man is as old as his arteries.
An old man in the house is a good sign.
An old young man will be a young old man.
Few persons know how to be old.
Grow old gracefully.
Growing old is no more than a bad habit which a busy man has no time to form.
Never too old to mend.
Old age comes uncalled.
Old age is honorable.
Old age is the night of life, as night is the old age of day.
Old age makes us wiser and more foolish.
Old age writes in sand; youth carves in stone.
Old in body, young in spirit.
Old men are twice children.
Old young and old long.
The best time to prepare for old age is when you are young.
The old one crows; the young one learns.
Though old and wise, be still advised.
We get too soon old and too late smart.
Wear out the old things first.
You are as old as you feel.
You are never older than you think you are.
You're not too old to learn.
You can't have an omelette unless you break the egg.
It requires more than one to make a bargain.
One today is worth two tomorrows.
One with the law is a majority.
When one will not, two cannot quarrel.
Don't let another's opinion sway your judgment.
Everyone to his own opinions.
It's difference of opinion that makes a horse race.
Public opinion is a second conscience.
Those who never retract their opinions love themselves more than they love  truth.
We think very few people sensible, except those who are of our opinion.
A lost opportunity never returns.
A man must make his opportunity as often as he finds it.
Don't wait for opportunities--make them.
If opportunity knocks, let her in.
Keep yourself from the opportunity and God will keep you from the sin.
Many are seeking opportunities when they really need an oculist.
Opportunities are few to the man who cannot make up his mind.
Opportunities do not wait.
Opportunities look for you when you are worth finding.
Opportunities neglected are lost.
Opportunities never nibble twice at the same hook.
Opportunity doesn't knock the door down.
Opportunity is bald on the back of her head; seize her as she passes.
Opportunity is the thief of virtue.
Opportunity is where you find it.
Opportunity knocks but once.
Opportunity knocks for every man, but a woman gets a ring.
Opportunity makes a thief.
Opportunity never knocks for persons not worth a rap.
Opportunity sooner or later comes to all who work and wish.
Take advantage of the little opportunities and you won't need to wait for a big  one.
Take opportunity by the forelock.
The man who loses his opportunity loses himself.
The opportunity is often lost by deliberating.
The opportunity of a lifetime is seldom so labeled.
We should never lose a good opportunity.
Opposites attract each other.
Don't be afraid of opposition.
Opposition is the life of trade.
Oppression will make a wise man mad.
The optimist's cup is half full; the pessimist's cup is half empty.
 Half an orange tastes as sweet as a whole one.
The orange that is squeezed too hard yields a bitter juice.
An orator without judgment is a horse without a bridle.
He is a good orator who convinces himself.
 Be humble and obey; you will be giving orders someday.
Orders are orders.
 Order and method render things easy.
Order is a lovely thing.
Order is heaven's first law.
Order makes for peace.
As the organ, so the tone.
Each organism knows best where it itches.
 A man is not deceived by others, he deceives himself.
Be sure that there are others worse off than yourself.
Don't talk about others, for they may be able to talk about you.
If we can tell others what to do, we should know what to do ourselves.
Think of others before you think of yourself.
He that will steal an ounce will steal a pound.
We are born not for ourselves alone.
There are more out than in.
Be not too hasty to outbid others.
Much outcry, little outcome.
When the outlook isn't good, try the uplook.
I'd rather be on the outside looking in than on the inside a-looking out.
There's more room outside than inside.
The outsider Sees the most of the game.
He who overcomes others is strong; he who overcomes himself is mightier still.
The overcurious are not overwise.
Overdone is worse than underdone.
More die of overfeeding than underfeeding.
Oversleeping will never make your dreams come true.
A man who doesn't owe anything is pretty well off, even if he hasn't got  anything.
Owe no man anything.
Sleep without owing and wake without owing.
The owl of ignorance lays the egg of pride.
The owl thinks all her young ones beauties.
You can't stay up with the midnight owl and expect to get up with the barnyard  fowl.
If the owner keeps his eye on the horse, it will fatten.
An ox is taken by the horns, and a man by the tongue.
Don't muzzle the ox when he treads out the corn.
It all depends on whose ox is gored.
It doesn't matter if the ox is blind; load the wagon and apply the line.
Take heed of an ox before, an ass behind, and a monk on all sides.
Tell an ox by his horns, but a man by his word.
The fat ox in the stall gives no thought to the hungry as they pass by.
The ox knows his owner, and the ass his master's crib.
When the ox is down, many are the butchers.
When the ox is in the ditch, pull him out.
Where no oxen are, the crib is clean.
He was a bold man who first ate an oyster.
'Tis the pace that kills.
You can't tell what's in a package by the cover.
A bad padlock invites a picklock.
The empty pail makes the most noise.
An hour of pain is as long as a day of pleasure.
Even pain is not painful.
Great pain and a little gain make a man soon weary.
Great pains cause us to forget the small ones.
Is there anything men take more pains about than to make themselves unhappy?  Rec.
Long pains are light ones; cruel ones are brief.
No pains, no gains; no sweat, no sweet.
Nothing brings more pain than too much pleasure.
Nothing conics without pain except dirt and long nails.
One pain kills another.
One's pain is lessened by another's anguish.
Pain is no evil unless it conquers us.
Pain past is pleasure.
Pain wastes the body, pleasures the understanding.
Pains are the wages of ill pleasures.
Pains to get, care to keep, and fear to lose is the best way to make an easy bed  for old age.
Save pains by taking pains.
Take pains or the pains will take you.
The honest man takes pains and then enjoys the pleasure; the knave takes  pleasure and then suffers the pains.
There is no pain so great that time will not soften.
What pains us trains us.
A girl who's wearing paint has a better chance than one who ain't.
The painter never paints his own house.
Look at paintings and fish from a distance.
You cannot make a cheap palace.
Let him who deserves the palm carry it.
 The palm is given to virtue.
Pampering a child is like a bear's hug: it may crush it to death.
A thin pan gwine get hot quicker than a thick one, an' cold the same way.
A watched pan is long in boiling.
Don't leap from the frying pan into the fire.
Pants don't make the man.
It's papa who pays.
 A man is known by the paper he pays for.
Paper and ink and little justice.
Paper bleeds little.
Paper does not blush.
Paper is patience: you can put anything on it.
The paperhanger never papers his own house.
Keep your pardon for others.
He who will not pardon others must not himself expect pardon.
Pardon others often, yourself seldom.
They never pardon who have done the wrong.
Pardoning the bad is injuring the good.
 If the parents are good, the children follow in their footsteps.
Parents are God's most gifted ministers.
Parents are patterns.
The art of being a parent consists of sleeping when the baby isn't looking.
Paris was not built in a day.
A mad parish must have a mad priest.
All that is said in the parlor should not be heard in the hall.
The parrot has fine feathers, but he doesn't go to the dance.
Never spare the parson's wine nor the baker's pudding.
It is easy to take a man's part, but the matter is to maintain it.
Parting is such sweet sorrow.
 If you breed a partridge, you'll get a partridge.
The partridge loves peas, but not those that go into the pot with it.
Always leave the party when you are still having a good time.
There isn't much to talk about at some parties until after one or two couples  leave.
This, too, will pass.
A man in passion rides a mad horse.
All the passions are extinguished with old age; self-love never dies.
Control your passion or it will control you.
He that can't bear with other people's passions cannot govern his own.
He that overcomes his passions overcomes his greatest enemies.
He that shows a passion tells his enemy where he may hit him.
If passion drives, let reason hold the reins.
No Man can guess in cold blood what he may do in a passion.
Passion is ever the enemy of truth.
Passion is like an unruly horse, and prudence its blind driver.
Passions spin the plot.
Set bounds to your passion by reason.
The end of passion is the beginning of repentance.
The passions are like fire and water: good servants but bad masters.
The worst passions have their root in the best.
When passion enters in at the foregate, wisdom goes out at the postern.
Where passion is high, there reason is low.
You can't ration passion.
Many people will forget the past for a present.
May the best of your past be the worst of your future.
Our past has gone into history.
Study the past if you would divine the future.
The past always looks better than it was; it's only pleasant because it isn't here.
The past at least is secure.
While you glory in the past, be busy in the present lest you be caught  unprepared in the future.
Change of pasture makes fat calves.
Good pastures make fat sheep.
The other man's pasture always looks the greenest.
A pat on the back will build character if applied low enough, hard enough, and  often enough.
A patch is better than a hole.
A patch is the sign of thrift, a hole the sign of negligence.
A patch on your coat and money in your pocket is better and more creditable  than a writ on your back and no money to take it off.
Better have a patch on your back than a rip on your back.
Don't put new patches on old garments.
Every man has one black patch, and some have two.
One patch is comely, but patch upon patch is beggarly.
Patches are honorable.
The best patch is of the same cloth.
 A beaten path is a safe one.
A trodden path bears no grass.
Every path has a puddle.
Every path leads two ways.
On an unknown path every foot is slow.
Stay on the straight and narrow path.
The longer the path, the sweeter the way home.
The middle path is safest.
You can't follow two paths.
A moment's patience is a tenyears' comfort.
A poor man without patience is like a lamp without oil.
All commend patience, but none can endure to suffer.
Have patience with a friend rather than lose him forever.
He that can have patience can have what he w Ill.
He that preaches patience never knew pain.
One learns patience by suffering.
Only those who have the patience to do simple things perfectly will acquire the  skill to do difficult things easily.
Patience conquers.
Patience cures many an old complaint.
Patience devours the devil.
Patience in market is worth pounds in a year.
Patience is a flower that grows not in every garden.
Patience is a plaster for all sores.
Patience is a remedy for every sorrow.
Patience is a virtue.
Patience is bitter, but its fruit is sweet.
Patience is the better part of valor.
Patience is the key of paradise.
Patience is the mother of virtue.
Patience is the wisest recipe for success.
Patience surpasses knowledge.
Patience under old injuries invites new ones.
Patience wears out stones.
Patience, time, and money overcome everything.
Poor are they who have not patience.
They that have patience may accomplish anything.
A good doctor treats both the patient and the disease.
An intemperate patient makes a cruel doctor.
He that is patient finds his foe at his feet.
A mahogany patriot is a critter that rides like a beggar a-horseback.
A mahogany patriot is a false patriot.
Patriotism is the last refuge of a scoundrel.
Patriotism knows neither latitude nor longitude; it is not climatic.
True patriotism is of no party.
Without patronage art is like a windmill without w Ind.
At a great pennyworth, pause a while.
Don't pay for a dead horse.
Don't pay for a dead man's shoes.
He that pays aforehand has never his work well done.
It is better to pay and have a little left than to have much and be always in debt.
Pay as you go.
Pay what you owe.
Soon paid is well paid.
A good paymaster is never in want of workmen.
A good paymaster needs no security.
Of a bad paymaster get what you can, though it be but a straw.
The good paymaster is lord of another man's purse.
 Every pea helps to fill the sack.
It ain't far from peas to pudding, but it shore is a long way back.
Too many peas spoil the soup.
A bad peace is better than a good quarrel.
A disarmed peace is weak.
A harvest of peace is produced from a seed of contentment.
Better keep peace than make peace.
He that would live at peace and rest must hear and see and say the best.
If there is peace in your heart, your home is like a palace.
If you desire peace, be ever prepared for war.
No man can live at peace unless his neighbor lets him.
Nothing can bring you peace but yourself.
Peace and honor are the sheaves of virtue's harvest.
Peace at any price.
Peace feeds, war wastes; peace breeds, war consumes.
Peace flourishes when reason rules.
Peace has her victories no less renowned than war.
Peace has won finer victories than war.
Peace is found only in the graveyard.
Peace is goodwill in action.
Peace rules the day when reason rules the m Ind.
Peace with a cudgel in hand is war.
The garment of peace never fades.
The real and lasting victories are those of peace and not of war.
The sheep who talks peace with a wolf will soon be mutton.
Who holds his peace and gathers stones will find a time to throw them.
Everything is not all peaches and cream.
The ripest peach hangs highest on the tree.
There is nothing peachier than a peach.
Go to the pear tree for pears, not an elm.
The man who plants pears is a-planting for his heirs.
A pearl is often hidden in an ugly shell.
Don't cast your pearls before swine.
He who would search for pearls must dive below.
Many a pearl is still hidden in its oyster.
String your pearls on a strong cord.
A pebble and a diamond are alike to a blind man.
One loose pebble can start a landslide.
There are more pebbles on the beach than one.
The blind man's peck should be well measured.
Pedantry is a vice in all professions.
Let every peddler carry his own pack.
Many have lived on a pedestal who will never have a statue when dead.
Pedigree won't sell a lame horse.
Seek not a good man's pedigree.
A peek in the hand is worth three finesses.
A peg is driven out by a peg, a nail by a nail.
You can't put a round peg in a square hole.
Don't build the pen before the litter comes.
The pen conveys one's meaning a thousand miles.
The pen is mightier than the sword.
The pen is the tongue of the m Ind.
The pen of the tongue should be dipped in the ink of the heart.
Better short of pence than short of sense.
Take care of the pence and the pounds will take care of themselves.
Don't write before your pencil is sharpened.
A bad penny always comes back.
A hard-earned penny is a well-earned penny.
A penny in the hand is worth two in the pot.
A penny saved is a penny earned.
A penny today is worth two tomorrow.
A single penny fairly got is worth a thousand that are not.
An honest penny is worth a stolen dollar.
Count your pennies and the dollars.
In for a penny, in for a pound.
One cannot have a good penny with bad wares.
One penny is better than none.
Pennies make dollars.
Penny and penny laid up will be many.
Penny goes after penny till Peter hasn't any.
Penny-wise, pound-foolish.
Save your pennies for a rainy day.
Take care of your pennies and the dollars will take care of themselves.
'Tis a well-spent penny that saves a groat.
Two pennies will creep together.
Who will not keep a penny shall never have many.
You can tell a bad penny by its ring.
At a great pennyworth, pause a while.
Many have been ruined by buying good pennyworths.
Always be nice to people on the way up the ladder 'cause you may meet them  on the way down.
As people think, so they are.
Beware of those people who list their possessions.
Blunt people come to the point quickly.
Changeable people are not easily satisfied.
Don't judge other people by yourself.
Few people can cuss and think at the same time.
Give some people everything you have and they still want the moon for a cow  pasture.
It is with narrow-souled people as with narrow-necked bottles: the less they  have in them, the more noise they make in pouring out.
It takes all kinds of people to make the world.
Let the people rule.
Many people will sell their souls for money.
Never trust people who pretend to be different from what they really are.
People are more easily led than driven.
People are not always feeling their pulse to see if they are happy.
People are not sorry for what they do wrong, but are sorry when they are  caught.
People don't see things on their own doorsteps.
People in hell want ice water.
People take you at your own valuation.
People usually get at odds with each other when they try to get even.
People who advertise their troubles never seem to get rid of their stock.
People who get to the top are not afraid of uphill work.
People who have nothing to do on earth ought to be in it.
People who know little talk much; people who know much talk little.
People who put off little things never put over big things.
People who work on holidays will always be poor.
People who wouldn't think of talking with their mouths full often speak with  their heads empty.
People with wax heads shouldn't walk in the sun.
Small people do small things.
Small people get their exercise by jumping at conclusions.
Some people are born in the objective case.
Some people can't see beyond the tip of their nose.
Some people don't have the sense of a bedbug.
Take people as you find them.
There are more people married now than are doing well.
There are three kinds of people: the wills, the won'ts, and the can'ts.
There are two kinds of people in the world: the kind who have the ideas and the  kind who do something about them.
There are two kinds of people on earth today: the people who lift and the people  who lean.
Three types of people in the world: those who have wishbones, those who have  funny bones, and those who have backbones.
Two people draw four, and four draw eight.
You can fool some of the people all the time, all the people some of the time,  but you can't fool all the people all the time, Vars.
You can please some of the people all the time, or all the people some of the  time, but never all of the people all of the time.
You have to winter and summer with people to know them.
You meet the strangest people in the strangest places.
You're not the only people on the beach.
Percepts without concepts are blind.
None of us are perfect.
Nothing is perfect.
Perform whatever you promise.
An acre of performance is worth the whole world of promise.
Performers are needed much more than reformers.
No one is bound to expose himself to peril.
The moment of peril is the moment for courage.
Perseverance is failing nineteen times and succeeding the twentieth.
Perseverance is the keynote to success.
Perserverance is the mother of invention.
Perseverance will accomplish all things.
To persevere is to win.
There was never a persimmon except there was a possum to eat it.
Persistence will accomplish more than force.
A churchgoing person is apt to be a 1aw-abiding person.
A person is what he is under pressure.
A person who stoops to get even is rarely able to stand upright again.
Be kind to a person going up 'cause you will meet him coming down.
If you want to know what a person is, have a business deal with him.
Many a person thinks he is hard-boiled when he is only half-baked.
You can tell a lot about a person by the way he walks.
Would you persuade, speak of interest, not of reason.
Persuasion is better than force.
A pessimist is a person who has lived with an optimist.
It pays to pester.
A pet person and a pet pig are the worst pets of all.
Rob Peter to pay Paul.
Many talk like philosophers and live like fools.
One true philosopher is worth a thousand linguists.
Philosophy means being able to explain why you are happy when you are poor.
A physician is a man who pours drugs of which he knows little into a body of  which he knows less.
A physician of anger is reason.
A young physician should have three graveyards.
From the physician and the lawyer keep not the truth hidden.
He's the best physician that knows the worthlessness of most medicines.
Physician, heal thyself.
Physicians kill more than they cure.
The best physicians are Dr.
The physician is an angel when employed and a devil when he demands.
When you call the physician, call the lawyer to make your w Ill.
Who has a physician has an executioner.
Always pick on someone your own size.
It will never get well if you pick it.
Pick where you scratch.
One at a time is good picking.
Pickin' up is better than totin', but puttin' down beats the world.
A beautiful picture is a silent teacher.
A picture is a poem without words.
Every picture has a negative.
One picture is worth ten thousand words.
Screening a picture doesn't take the trash out.
A good pie wants no bread.
Apple pie without cheese is like a kiss without a squeeze.
Don't eat your pies before they are made.
Every pie has its own piecrust.
It's poor pie that doesn't grease its own tin.
You made your pie; now eat it.
Save the pieces to pay the rent.
Hypocritical piety is double iniquity.
True piety elevates the spirit, ennobles the heart, and strengthens the courage.
A pig in the parlor is still a pig.
A pig used to dirt turns up its nose at rice boiled in milk.
De pig dat runs off wid de year er corn gits little mo' dan de cob.
Don't buy a pig in a poke.
Even a blind pig occasionally picks up an acorn.
Feed a pig and you'll have a hog.
Give to a pig when it grunts and a child when it cries, and you will have a fine  pig and a bad child.
If a pig had wings he might fly.
Never ring a pig that has to root for a living.
Pigs are pigs.
Pigs dunno w'at a pen's fer.
Pigs grow fat where lambs would starve.
Runt pig is best hog in litter.
The biggest pig eats the most.
The leanest pigs squeal the most.
The pig dreams of acorns, and the goose of maize.
The pig furthest from the trough squeals loudest.
The still pig gets all the slop.
The trouble is there are too many pigs for the teats.
Wash a pig, scent a pig; a pig still is a pig.
When you see a pig, you should kick it.
You can lead a pig to water, but you can't make him drink.
You can't fatten a pig on one ear of corn.
Too much attention to the pigskin doesn't help the sheepskin.
If you can't put anything on the pile, take nothing off.
Bitter pills may have blessed effects.
Pills are to be swallowed, not chewed.
A pilot is not chosen for his riches but his knowledge.
Don't try to be the best pilot in the world, just the oldest.
Every man is a pilot in a calm sea.
There are old pilots and there are bold pilots, but there are no old, bold pilots.
A pin a day is a groat a year.
Don't come to me for safety pins.
He that will not stoop for a pin will never be worth a pound.
He that will steal a pin will steal a better thing.
If you begin with a common pin, you will end with a silver bowl.
See a pin, pick it up, all day you'll have good luck.
'Tis a sin to steal a pin as much as it is a potato.
Unreturned pins break friendship.
One pinch of salt sets the whole pot to boiling.
A man on a pinnacle has no place to go but down.
A pint's a pound the world around.
No longer pipe, no longer dance.
He who pays the piper may call the tune.
No piper can please all ears.
Pay the piper his due.
When the pirate promises masses and wax, the vessel is in a bad plight.
If you dig a pit for someone else, you fall into it yourself.
He who touches pitch will get black.
If you throw enough pitch, some of it is sure to stick.
He who pitches too high will not get through his song.
A pitcher that goes to the well too often is liable to be broken.
Little pitchers have big ears.
Little pitchers pour less.
Don't waste pity on a scamp.
It is as great a pity to see a woman weep as to see a goose go barefoot.
Pity and need make all flesh kin.
Pity is akin to love.
Pity melts the mind to love.
A place for everything and everything in its place.
Any old place I can hang my hat is home sweet home to me.
Everything is good in its place.
Give place to your betters.
He who thinks his place is below him will certainly be below his place.
High places have their precipices.
If you leave your place, you lose it.
One cannot be in two places at once.
The higher the place, the harder the fall.
Men may die of the plague though the spots never appear.
The plague and the hero are both of a trade.
The plaintiff must prove.
Sunday plans never stand.
The best-laid plans of mice and men often go astray.
The best plan is to profit by the folly of others.
You can't afford to snub a man built on the million-dollar plan.
Plan and propose and God will dispose.
Plan your work and work your plan.
Every plane has its pilot.
Planning your future saves you from regretting your past.
Make the plaster as large as the sore.
A cracked plate always lasts longer than a new one.
The platter kills more than the sword.
Cheating play never thrives.
Free sitters always grumble most at the play.
Good play is fair play.
Tit for tat's fair play.
It is not clever to play, but to stop playing.
Play close to the chest.
Play while you play; work while you work.
Though most be players, some must be spectators.
It is well to leave off playing when the game is at the best.
A false plea is the basest of all things.
He labors in vain who tries to please everybody.
He that would please all and himself too takes more in hand than he is like to  do.
Please ever; tease never.
What pleases you in others will please them in you.
You can't please everybody.
A man of pleasure is a man of pains.
Do not bite at the bait of pleasure till you know there is no hook beneath it.
Don't find pleasure without conscience.
Flee the pleasure that will bite tomorrow.
Fly pleasure and it will follow you.
Many a man thinks he is buying pleasure when he is really selling himself a  slave to it.
No pleasure without pain.
One man's pleasure is another man's poison.
Pleasure first and business after.
Pleasure in excess is criminal.
Pleasure is seldom found where it is most eagerly sought.
Pleasure is the source of pain; pain is the source of pleasure.
Pleasure has a way of engrossing us until it becomes work.
Pleasures are like poppies spread.
Self-sought pleasure rarely satisfies for long.
Short pleasure often brings long repentance.
The best pleasures of all last but a time.
The itch of pleasure does not itch at all.
The pleasure of doing good is the only one that will not wear out.
The pleasure of what we enjoy is lost by coveting more.
The pleasures of youth make the pains of old age.
There is more pleasure in loving than in being in love.
There is not half the pleasure in possessing an object as in the effort to attain it.
We have no rose without its thorn, no pleasure without alloy.
When pleasure is the business of life, it ceases to be pleasure.
Who pleasure gives shall joy receive.
Plenty ought to be enough.
Too much plenty makes mouth dainty.
Plodding wins the race.
A mischievous plot may produce a good end.
A tragic plot may produce a comic conclusion.
A dull-edged plow furrows your brow.
Don't get your plow in too deep.
Don't lay down the plow until you are at the end of the furrow.
Don't put the plow before the horse.
Every fellow likes his own plow best.
He that by the plow would thrive, himself must either hold or drive.
It's the man behind the plow who does the work.
Put your hand to the plow.
The man who pulls the plow gets the plunder.
The plow doesn't go before the oxen.
The plow is mightier than the sword.
One plows, another sows--who will reap, no one knows.
Plow before you plant.
Plow deep while sluggards sleep, and you shall have corn to sell and to keep.
Plow or not plow, you must pay the rent.
An innocent plowman is of more worth than a vicious prince.
Pluck is better than luck.
The higher the plum tree, the riper the plums.
There are no pockets in shrouds.
All men are poets at heart.
Nobody loves a poet.
Poets and pigs are appreciated only after their death.
Poets are the fathers of lies.
The poet is born, not made.
Poetry is the devil's drink.
Poetry solaces sorrow.
 One woman's poise is another woman's poison.
Poise and self-confidence make up a large part of good looks.
One who takes poison swallows its dish as well.
Poison quells poison.
The longest pole gets the persimmon.
A polecat is a polecat, no matter what you call it.
Policy often effects what force cannot.
The worst of all policies in hard times is to sit down and fold your hands.
It depends on what you're made of whether you take on a polish or get worn  down.
Polish on the heels of shoes is a truer test of thoroughness than shine on the  toes.
Truly polite is always polite.
Politeness costs nothing and gains everything.
Politeness is inward kindness outwardly expressed.
Politeness is the just medium between ceremony and rudeness.
Politeness is to do and say the kindest thing in the kindest way.
Politeness is to goodness what words are to thought.
Too much politeness is a form of cunning.
True politeness consists in treating others just as you love to be treated yourself.
Nothing is politically right which is morally wrong.
A politician is a fellow who gives you the key to the city after he's taken  everything worth having.
A politician is an animal who can sit on a fence and yet keep both ears to the  ground.
Sooner or later all politicians die of swallowing their own lies.
In politics a man must learn to rise above principle.
Never contend with anyone about his politics.
Politics is a rotten egg; if broken open it stinks.
Politics is the mother of graft.
Politics makes strange bedfellows.
Those who mess with politics are bound to catch smut.
Pomp ruins families and leads to the corruption of manners.
A chompy pony ain't a-fixin' to push no cattle.
A standing pool soon stagnates.
Even the strongest may be punished when they oppress the poor.
He who gives to the poor lends to the Lord.
Remember the poor: it costs nothing.
Rob not the poor because he is poor.
The poor are rich when they are satisfied.
The poor have little; beggars none; the rich too much; enough, not one.
The poor is hated even of his own neighbors, but the rich have many friends.
The poor must dance as the rich pipe.
The poor you have with you always.
What is the matter with the poor is poverty.
A man is not poor if he can laugh.
A poor man has no friends.
A poor man is better than a liar.
A poor man wears his clothes three ways: new, old, and patched.
Better be poor and live than rich and perish.
Better be poor than wicked.
Better poor with honor than rich with shame.
For one poor man there are a hundred indignant.
He becomes poor that deals with a slack hand, but the hand of diligence makes  rich.
He is not poor that has little, but he that desires more.
He is poor whom God hates.
It is better poor and free than to be rich and a slave.
It is easy to pass a poor man's door.
It is harder to be poor without murmuring than to be rich without arrogance.
It's a poor family that has neither a whore nor a thief in it.
It's hell to be poor.
No matter what else you have, you are poor if you lack friends.
Poor folks are contented with duck soup.
Poor folks are glad of porridge.
Poor folks have poor ways.
The poor man pays all.
The poorest man is he whose only wealth is money.
There is no use being poor and looking poor.
To be poor without being free is the worst state into which a man can fall.
When all are poor, it don't take much to make a rich man.
It is hard to live in Rome and strive against the Pope.
Popular opinion is the greatest lie in the world.
Popularity is glory's small change.
There is no gain in subtracting from your character to add to your popularity.
Sweep off your own back porch first.
Don't pet a porcupine unless you are looking for trouble.
The porcupine, whom one must handle gloved, may be respected, but it is never  loved.
Cold porridge is easily heated.
The less porridge, the more spoons.
Any port in a storm.
A humble position often brings safety.
With higher positions there comes added responsibilities.
Accentuate the positive.
The most positive are often the most mistaken.
A man possesses only what he knows he possesses.
Possess it yourself and give it to another.
To be content, look backward on those who possess less than yourself, not  forward on those who possess more.
 Great possessions are great cares.
Possession is nine points of the law, and self-possession is the other one.
Possibilities are infinite.
 Big possum climb little tree.
Possum's tail good as a paw.
The big possum walks just before the dawn.
You can never get all the possums up the same tree.
A standing post gathers no sense.
One locust-wood post will wear out two fence-post holes.
Good posture means better health.
A little pot is soon hot.
A watched pot never boils.
Borrowed pots are apt to leak.
Every pot has its cover.
Every pot must stand upon its own bottom.
He who stirs the soup pot eats first.
Never leave the mark of the pot upon the ashes.
Pint pots are soon filled.
Put the big pot in the little one, kill a pumpkin, and churn.
The busy man has few idle visitors; to the boiling pot the flies come not.
The cracked pot lasts the longest.
The emptier the pot, the quicker it boils.
The pot boils best on its own hearth.
The pot calls the kettle black.
There's a pot of gold at the end of the rainbow.
You can't rub on a black pot without getting black on you.
A hot potato is hard to cool.
Don't eat your father's seed potatoes.
If you plant potatoes you can't reap tomatoes.
It's no good planting a boiled potato.
Small potatoes are few in a hill.
The poor potatoes are all in one hill.
When the going is rough, big potatoes come to the top.
Every potter praises his own pot, and more if it be broken.
Forever and ever it takes a pound to fight a pound.
Pout and you bear life alone.
Both poverty and prosperity come from spending money--prosperity from  spending it wisely.
It easier to praise poverty than to bear it.
Neither great poverty nor great riches will hear reason.
Of all poverty, that of the mind is the most deplorable.
Poverty and hunger have many apt pupils.
Poverty and love are hard to hide.
Poverty and shame shall be to him that refuses instructions, but he that regards  reproof shall be honored.
Poverty comes from God, but not dirt.
Poverty consists in feeling poor.
Poverty gives a man strange bedfellows.
Poverty has no kin.
Poverty is no crime.
Poverty is no disgrace.
Poverty is no sin.
Poverty is not a shame, but being ashamed of it is.
Poverty is the mother of all the arts.
Poverty is the mother of crime; want of sense is the father.
Poverty is the mother of invention.
Poverty is the sixth sense.
Poverty makes a hog gentle.
Poverty makes good fellowship.
Poverty may be a cure for dyspepsia, but most people prefer the dyspepsia.
Poverty of mind is often concealed under the barb of splendor.
Poverty parts friends.
Poverty, poetry, and new titles of honor make men ridiculous.
Poverty shows us who our friends are and who are our enemies.
Poverty wants some things, luxury many things, avarice all things.
Poverty with security is better than plenty in the midst of fear and uncertainty.
There is no virtue that poverty does not destroy.
Unsullied poverty is always happy, while impure wealth brings with it many  sorrows.
What is the matter with the poor is poverty.
When poverty comes in the door, love flies out the window.
 A little bit of powder and a little bit of paint makes a woman look like what she  ain't.
Face powder may win a man, but it takes baking powder to hold him.
Keep your powder dry.
 As water finds its level, so power goes.
Do things and you shall have the power.
If you want to be the power behind the throne, stay behind the throne three or  four times.
It is not possible to found a lasting power upon injustice.
Never underestimate the power of women.
O would some power the gift give us to see ourselves as others see us.
Power can achieve more by gentle means than by violence.
Power corrupts, and absolute power corrupts absolutely.
Power discovers the real disposition of a man.
Power flows to him who knows how.
Power itself has not one-half the might of gentleness.
Sudden power is apt to be insolent, sudden liberty saucy; that behaves best  which has grown gradually.
He is powerful who governs his passions.
Practice makes perfect.
Underhand practices fail in the end.
Practice what you preach.
A little praise goes a long ways.
A puff of wind and popular praise weigh alike.
Every man likes his own praise best.
Faint praise is disparagement.
If you wish praise, die; if you wish blame, marry.
Praise from a wife is praise indeed.
Praise is the reflection of virtue.
Praise makes a good man better and a bad man worse.
Praise undeserved is scandal in disguise.
Praise without profit puts little in the pocket.
Proper praise sticks.
The sweetest of all sounds is praise.
The worst praise is self-praise.
There is something sweeter than receiving praise: the feeling of having deserved  it.
They that value not praise will never do anything worthy of it.
 Let another man praise you, and not your own mouth.
Praise publicly; blame privately.
Usually we praise only to be praised.
Those that do the most prancing make the least progress.
He prays the best who loves best all things both great and small.
He that would learn to pray, let him go to the sea.
None can pray well but he that lives well.
Pray and work and you will be happy.
'Tis easy to sigh but 'tis better to pray.
When going to sea, pray once; when going to war, pray twice; when going to be  married, pray thrice.
When it's hard to pray, pray the hardest.
It's not the length of the prayer that is the most important.
More things are wrought by prayer than this world dreams of.
Nightly prayer makes the day to shine.
Prayer and provender hinder no man's journey.
Prayer changes things.
Prayer hinders no work.
Prayer is a cry of hope.
Prayer is a wish turned upward.
Prayer is food for the soul.
Prayer is the pillow of religion.
Prayer is the voice of faith.
Prayer should be the key of the day and the lock of the night.
Prayer-worn knees and a rusty hoe never need a crop of corn.
Say your prayers as if you were going to die tomorrow; do your work as if you  were going to live forever.
Some people who moan about prayers being answered don't seem to realize the  answer may be no.
The prayer of the innocent is never unheard.
He who is always praying has a dangerous life.
Praying keeps us from sinning; sinning keeps us from praying.
He preaches best who loves the most.
He preaches well who lives well.
There are some who preach beautifully but practice not their beautiful doctrine.
A preacher loves chicken better than he loves his second cousin.
A preacher's son is often bad.
He is a good preacher who follows his own preaching.
Preacher, be advised by your own sermons.
Preachers can talk but never teach unless they practice what they preach.
The painful preacher, like a candle bright, consumes himself in giving others  light.
When de preacher comes in, de chickens cry.
Woe to those preachers who listen not to themselves.
It is bad preaching to deaf ears.
A precedent embalms a principle.
Precepts may lead, but examples draw.
Precipitation will ruin the bestlaid designs.
It is never too late to give up our prejudices.
Never let the prejudice of the eye determine the heart.
No tree takes so deep a root as prejudice.
Prejudice is being down on what we are not up on.
Prejudice is the child of ignorance.
Prejudice is the reason of fools.
When we destroy an old prejudice, we have need of a new one.
There's nothing like too much preparation to dull the sharp edge of a man's  honin'.
Whose presence does no good, their absence does no harm.
Presents speak louder than words.
Live for the present; plan for the future.
There's never a time like the present.
Think of the present and not of the past.
Enjoy the present moment and don't grieve for tomorrow.
It's not a president's business to catch flies.
Freedom of the press is like a flaming sword.
Presumption has ruined multitudes.
Pretenders should be put to the test.
If you want a pretense to whip a dog, it is enough to say he ate up the frying  pan.
The mask of pretense often becomes reality.
The world is his who can see through pretension.
Prettiness dies quickly.
Pretty is as pretty does.
Prevent rather than repent.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
Don't buy at too dear a price.
You have to pay the price for being a good man.
A stiff prick knows no conscience.
Don't kick against pricks.
Early pricks turn to thorns.
A man's pride in what he knows decreases as his knowledge grows.
A woman's pride is as strong as a man's stubbornness.
Better stand alone in conscious pride than err with millions on your side.
Declaiming against pride is not always a sign of humility.
Fond pride of dress is sure a very curse; ere fancy you consult, consult your  purse.
If pride leads the van, beggary brings up the rear.
It is pride, not nature, that craves much.
Never say no from pride or yes from weakness.
Pride and poverty go hand in hand.
Pride and the gout are seldom cured throughout.
Pride breakfasted with plenty, dined with poverty, and supped with infamy.
Pride comes before a fall.
Pride costs more than hunger, thirst, or cold.
Pride feels no pain.
Pride goes before, and shame follows after.
Pride goes forth on horseback grand and gay, and comes back on foot and begs  its way.
Pride in prosperity turns to misery in adversity.
Pride is a luxury a poor man cannot afford.
Pride is as loud a beggar as want, and a great deal more saucy.
Pride is at the bottom of all great mistakes.
Pride is neither too hot nor too cold.
Pride is painful.
Pride must pinch.
Pride often apes humility.
Pride often borrows the cloak of humility.
Pride that dines on vanity sups on contempt.
Pride will keep you warm.
Pride's an ill horse to ride.
Put your pride in your pocket.
Sheer pride and sloth, the roots of every vice.
The proud hate pride in others.
There is no pride like that of a beggar grown rich.
Like priest, like people.
One son becomes a priest, nine generations are sure of heaven.
Only those become priests who cannot earn a living.
Better poisoned in one's blood than to be poisoned in one's principles.
In politics a man must learn to rise above principle.
It is easier to fight for one's principles than to live up to them.
Never sacrifice principles to please anyone.
Principle is a passion for truth and right.
'Tis against some men's principle to pay interest, and seems against others'  interest to pay the principal.
The printing press is the mother of errors.
A prison ain't just a place--it's being somewheres you don't want to be.
It is a woman's privilege to change her mind.
Usurp not the privileges of another.
A thousand probabilities do not make one truth.
Lest men suspect your tale untrue, keep probability in view.
Probabilities direct the conduct of the wise man.
A problem, when solved, is simple.
Procrastination is the root of all evil.
Procrastination is the thief of time.
The prodigal robs his heir; the miser robs himself.
The prodigality of the rich is the providence of the poor.
Start young at what you wish to become proficient in.
Great profits on small capital are after all small.
In all labor there is profit.
Much profit, much risk.
No one was ever ruined by taking a profit.
Nothing can sit still and make a profit except a hen.
Small profits are not to be despised.
Those who take the profits should also bear the expense.
Today's profits are yesterday's goodwill ripened.
Who busies himself where no profit is found remains a fool the whole year  round.
He profits most who serves best.
The best plan is to profit by the folly of others.
Nothing is profitable which is dishonest.
Profusion is the charm of hospitality.
All progress of the best kind is slow.
Every step of progress that the world has made has been from scaffold to  scaffold and from stake to stake.
Progress never stands still.
You either progress or go backwards; you cannot stand still.
A bad promise is better broken than kept.
A promise is a debt.
A promise is a promise.
A promise is only made to be broken.
A promise made is a debt unpaid.
All promises are either broken or kept.
Few promises are best and fair performance.
Long on promises, short on performance.
Many promises lessen confidence.
Never make a promise when you know at the beginning you can't keep it.
People who do not keep their promises are sure to suffer for it sooner or later.
Promise is a pretty word; if fulfilled, it's good.
Promises are like piecrust: they are made to be broken.
Promises are most given when least said.
Promises don't fill the belly.
Promises fill no sack.
Promises will not make you poor.
Trust not fine promises.
Who makes no promises has none to perform.
You can't live on promises.
Be slow to promise and quick to perform.
Expect nothing from him who promises a great deal.
It is one thing to promise, another to perform.
Men apt to promise are apt to forget.
Promise little but do much.
Promising means nothing; giving is the real thing.
The more you promise, the less you will have to deliver.
No greater promisers than those who have nothing to give.
See one promontory, one mountain, one sea, one river, and see all.
The proof of the home is the nursery.
The proof of the pudding is in the eating.
Few rich men own their own property--their property owns them.
Such as waste their own property will not be careful of that of others.
Don't prophesy unless you know.
Prophesy as you like, but always hedge.
A prophet is without honor in his own country.
Do not in prosperity what may be repented of in adversity.
He that swells in prosperity will be sure to shrink in adversity.
In time of prosperity, friends will be plenty; in time of adversity, not one in  twenty.
Prosperity destroys fools and endangers the wise.
Prosperity discovers vice; adversity, virtue.
Prosperity is not without its troubles.
Prosperity is the surest breeder of insolence.
Prosperity makes friends; adversity tries them.
Too much prosperity makes most men fools.
The proud have all the pain-none of the pleasures of the vain.
A proud man is always a foolish man.
A proud woman brings distress on her family.
As sore places meet most rubs, proud folks meet most affronts.
Never be too proud to turn back.
De proudness in a man don't count w'en his head's cold.
He that proves too much proves nothing.
Never try to prove that nobody doubts.
Mad folks and proverbs reveal many truths.
Proverbs are the daughters of daily experience.
Proverbs are the wisdom of nations.
A special providence takes care of idiots and stick-and-dirt chimneys.
Don't tempt providence.
Don't wait for providence to send you a worm.
Providence assists not the idle.
Providence for the worst; the best will save itself.
Providence helps those who help themselves.
Providence requires three things of us before it will help us: a stout heart, a  strong arm, and a stiff upper lip.
Providence tempers the wind to the shorn lamb.
We must follow, not force, providence.
A grain of prudence is worth a pound of craft.
From prudence comes peace; from peace, abundance.
He is prudent who is patient.
Remember that no matter how young a prune is, he's always wrinkled.
He who serves a public has but a scurvy master.
The public has more interest in the punishment of an injury than he who  receives it.
The public is the only critic whose opinion is worth anything at all.
Public men should have public minds.
Public office is a public trust.
Better some of the pudding than none of the pie.
Make your pudding according to your plums.
It is easier to pull down than to build up.
Pullet can't roost too high fer de owl.
Pulling down another means getting below him.
Every pumpkin is known by its stem.
You can raise a pumpkin in a few weeks, but it takes years to raise an oak tree.
It often happens that a bad pun goes further than a better one.
Punctuality begets confidence and is the sure path to honor and respect.
Punctuality is the art of guessing correctly how late the other party is going to  be.
Punctuality is the first rung on the ladder of success.
Punctuality is the soul of business.
Punctuality is the thief of time.
He who punishes one chastises a hundred.
Many without punishment, none without sin.
Punishment and reward act like the bridle and spur.
Punishment comes slowly, but it comes.
Punishment deferred commonly falls the heavier.
Punishment is a close attendant to guilt.
Punishment is always a two-edged sword.
The punishment should fit the crime.
To learn, a pupil must meet the teacher halfway.
If you play with a puppy, he will lick your mouth.
It is bad for puppies to play with cub bears.
Who play wid de puppy get bit wid de fleas.
Let the purchaser buy at his own risk.
Purity is obscurity.
Before you work for some purpose, you must have a purpose.
Have a purpose for everything you undertake to do.
Many good purposes lie in the churchyard.
Many men fail because they lack purpose.
A full purse has many friends.
A full purse makes a mouth speak.
A heavy purse makes a light heart.
 A light purse is a heavy curse.
A light purse makes a heavy heart.
A weasel-skinned purse is never empty.
An empty purse fills the face with wrinkles.
As the purse is emptied, the heart is filled.
Ask your purse what you should buy.
Better an empty purse than an empty head.
If a man empties his purse into his head, no one can take it from him.
If you put nothing in your purse, you can take nothing out.
Let your purse be your master.
Wrinkled purses make wrinkled faces.
You can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear.
The purse strings are the most common ties of friendship.
Lowly pursuits become lowly men.
Just pushing ahead will open the door to success much quicker than pulling.
Put up or shut up.
Quacks use their skill to make sound men sick and ill men dead.
Quackery has no such friend as credulity.
Don't value a man for the quality he is of, but for the qualities he possesses.
It is better to believe that a man possesses good qualities than to assert that he  does not.
Men of great qualities do not always succeed in life.
Quality is better than quantity.
Quality shows.
Adjusting quarrels proves goodwill; preventing them is nobler still.
An old quarrel is easily renewed.
Deep as are the quarrels, deep becomes the love.
From one quarrel come a hundred sins.
He that can make a fire well can end a quarrel.
He who forgives ends the quarrel.
He who returns the first blow is the man who begins the quarrel.
If you don't have the first quarrel, you will never have the second.
It takes two to make a quarrel.
Never interfere with family quarrels.
Never let the sun go down on a quarrel.
Never pick a quarrel, even when it's right.
No quarrel ever stirred before the second word.
Quarrels are easily begun but with difficulty ended.
Quarrels never could last long if on one side only lay the wrong.
The quarrel of friends is the opportunity of their foes.
There is no quarrel between the good and the bad, but only between the bad and  the bad.
There is nothing so foolish as an idle quarrel.
Those who in quarrels interpose must often wipe a bloody nose.
Who seeks a quarrel finds it near at hand.
Be not the first to quarrel nor the last to make up.
Never quarrel with your bread and butter.
When two quarrel, both are to blame.
Quarreling is the weapon of the weak.
A quarrelsome disposition makes few friends.
A quarrelsome man has no good neighbors.
You can't get a quart out of a thimble.
 Everybody's queer but you and me, and even you are a little queer.
To a queer man all the world is queer save himself.
Ask me no questions and I'll tell you no lies.
Ask questions and learn.
Never answer a question until it is asked.
No question is ever settled.
Questions are never indiscreet; answers sometimes are.
Silly question, silly answer.
'Tis better to ask some of the questions than to know all the answers.
'Tis not every question that deserves an answer.
To a man full of questions, make no answer at all.
Weighty questions ask for deliberate answers.
 He who questions nothing learns nothing.
To question a wise man is the beginning of wisdom.
Yours is not to question why; yours is but to do or die.
We must live by the quick, not by the dead.
Be quick but never hurry, for hurry brings disaster.
Quick at meat, quick at work.
What is quickly done is quickly undone.
There's always a quiet after a storm.
Anything for a quiet life.
Keep quiet and let people think you're ignorant; don't speak and remove all  doubt.
Quiet people, whether wise or dull, get the benefit of the doubt.
Better a dry morsel with quietness than a house full of sacrifice with strife.
Next to love, quietness.
A goose quill is more dangerous than a lion's claw.
Don't quit till the hearse comes around.
 Never quit until the last one.
When you're through, quit.
God almighty hates a quitter.
Quotation confesses inferiority.
Brer Rabbit trusts no mistake.
Don't stay with the rabbits but run with the hounds.
First catch your rabbit and then make your stew.
It is better to be a live rabbit than a dead tiger.
There is always something to keep the rabbit's tail short.
You can't tell how far a rabbit can jump by the length of its cars.
You get the rabbit from the hind legs.
 No race is won or lost until the line is crossed.
The race is not always to the swift.
You must run to win the race.
Don't judge a man's knowledge of racehorses by the clothes he wears.
You can't make a racehorse out of a mule.
Stand to the rack, fodder or no fodder.
Always turn the radio on before you listen to it.
 Provoke not the rage of a patient man.
Rage is brief insanity.
One broken rail will wreck a train.
The bottom rail gets on top every fifty years.
Even railroads have curves.
A little rain stills a great wind.
A morning's rain is like an old woman's dance: it doesn't last long.
A small rain lays a great dust.
After rain comes sunshine.
All who travel in the rain get wet.
If there were no rain, there'd be no hay to make when the sun shines.
Into each life some rain must fall.
It is pleasant to look on the rain when one stands dry.
More rain, more grass.
More rain, more rest.
Rain before seven, clear before eleven.
Rain falls alike on the just and unjust.
Rain in May makes the hay.
Rain never melted anyone.
Rain one day, shine the next.
Rain won't stand on a tin roof.
The rain that rains on everybody else can't keep you dry.
Don't rain eve'y time de pig squeal.
It never rains but it pours.
A rainbow is big enough for everyone to look at.
Rainbow at night, sailor's delight; rainbow at morning, sailors take warning.
Raincrow don't sing no chune, but you c'n 'pen' on 'im.
Save for a rainy day.
Letting grow and raising are different.
A reformed rake makes the best husband.
Keep the rake near the scythe, and the cart near the rake.
Don't look for a ram with five feet.
The rank and file are usually slow on the uptake, but they can be quick on the  letdown.
The ransom of a man's life is his riches.
There isn't a rascal or a thief that doesn't have his devotion.
Rascality has limits; stupidity has not.
Don't comer a rat.
Even a rat, when cornered, will turn and fight.
 It takes a rat to catch a rat.
Rats desert a sinking ship.
Rats know the way of rats.
The rat which has but one hole is soon caught.
 The raven eludes a blackness.
The ravens don't peck one another's eyes out.
The young ravens are beaked like the old.
If you don't have a razor, you are sure to be shaved.
 A man's reach must exceed his grasp.
Do not despise that which is beyond reach.
From life to death is man's reach.
Out of reach is not worth having.
 He that can read and meditate will not find his evenings long or life tedious.
Read carefully; sign cautiously.
Read much, but not too many books.
Read much, speak little, and write less.
The man who reads is the man who leads.
'Tis not how much but how well we read.
To read and not to understand is to pursue and not to take.
 Seldom readers are slow readers.
'Tis the good reader that makes the book good.
A reading people will be a knowing people.
Extensive reading is a priceless treasure.
Reading makes a full man, conference a ready man, writing an exact man.
In an orderly house all things are always ready.
It's better to be ready and not to go than not to be ready and go.
 Reality never surpasses imagination.
There are stranger things in reality than can be found in romances.
A bad reaper never got a good sickle.
A good reaper deserves a good sickle.
A man without reason is a beast in season.
Better die than turn your back on reason.
Hear reason or she'll make you feel her.
Hearken to reason or she will not be heard.
If you will not hear reason, she will surely rap your knuckles.
Reason is the life of the law.
Reason succeeds where force fails.
There is reason in all things.
'Tis in vain to speak reason where it will not be heard.
Without a good reason for doing a thing, we have a fine reason for leaving it  alone.
Rebellion to tyrants is obedience to God.
The only justification of rebellion is success.
Open rebuke is better than secret love.
Rebuke ought not to have a grain more of salt than of sugar.
Nothing recedes like success.
No receiver, no thief; no penny, no paternoster.
The receiver is as bad as the thief.
Short reckonings make long friends.
Recognition for everything comes eventually.
Red sky at night, sailor's delight; red sky in the morning, sailors take warning.
A beaten soldier fears a reed.
Reeds will bend, but iron will not.
The reed does blow at every blast.
Where there are reeds, there is water.
Reflection insures safety, but rashness is followed by regrets.
All social reforms must begin with ourselves.
Reforms are generally most unpopular where most needed.
The greatest need to reform is among the reformers.
High regions are never without storms.
Regret causes an aching which is worse than pain.
Regret is a terrible weakness.
Regrets last longer than repentance.
He who reigns within himself is more than a king.
Rejoice today and repent tomorrow.
Rejoice with them that rejoice; weep with them that weep.
Relationship is a poor ship to sail on.
A lot of relatives, a lot of trouble.
God gives us relatives; thank God we can choose our friends.
If you have nothing, go to your relatives.
Relatives are best with a wall between.
Relatives are friends from bitter necessity.
Relatives take the greatest liberties and give the least assistance.
With a relative eat and drink, but transact no business with him.
Relax and enjoy it.
A man without religion is a horse without a bridle.
A woman without religion is a flower without perfume.
Each one holds his own religion for the best.
He that has not religion for his pillow is without a resting place.
If religion was a thing we all could buy, the rich would live and the poor would  die.
It matters not what religion an ill man is of.
Many have quarreled about religion that never practiced it.
Monday religion is better than Sunday profession.
Religion adapted to the wise alone leaves most of the sheep unshepherded.
Religion is the best armor in the world, but the worst cloak.
Religion should be a rule of life, not a casual incident of it.
There is no bargain-counter religion.
You're not supposed to keep religion-it's supposed to keep you.
The cost often spoils the relish.
What one relishes, nourishes.
Heated remarks never thaw icy hearts.
Most people make many remarks without saying anything remarkable.
A good remedy for anger is delay.
For every evil under the sun, there is a remedy or there is none.
Sometimes the remedy is worse than the disease.
The remedy for hard times is to have patience.
There is a remedy for all things but death.
There is a remedy for everything, could men find it.
Things without remedy should be without regard.
The remembrance of past dangers is pleasant.
One man's remorse is another man's reminiscence.
Remorse is a sign that it wasn't as pleasant as expected.
Remorse is the echo of a lost virtue.
Remorse is the thing we ought to feel and don't.
Three removes are as bad as a fire.
One owes nothing till the rent becomes due.
Short rents make careless tenants.
It is easy to repeat, but hard to originate.
Nobody will repeat it if you do not say it.
We never repent of having eaten or drunk too little.
We often repent of what we have said, but never of what we have not.
Late repentance is seldom worth much.
Repentance is never too late.
That may be soon done which brings long repentance.
When all is consumed, repentance comes too late.
Repetition is the mother of learning.
Never give a hasty reply.
A false report rides post.
The sting of a reproach is the truth of it.
A smart reproof is better than smooth deceit.
Reprove mildly and correct with caution.
Reprove others but correct yourself.
A good reputation covers a multitude of sins.
A good reputation is more valuable than money.
A good reputation stands still; a bad one runs.
A great reputation is a great charge.
A man that outlives his reputation soon becomes miserable.
A man's best reputation for his future is his record of the past.
A wounded reputation is seldom cured.
Beware of him that regards not his reputation.
Reputation is hard to make and easy to lose.
Reputation is what you are in the light; character is what you are in the dark.
The greater a man's reputation, the greater the criticism.
The way to gain a good reputation is to endeavor to be what you desire to  appear.
Quick resentments are often fatal.
A resolute man cares nothing about difficulties.
It's better not to make a New Year's resolution than to make one and break it.
He that resolves to mend hereafter resolves to mend not.
Whatsoever is well resolved on should be quickly performed.
One who cannot respect himself cannot respect another.
Respect a man--he will do the more.
To be respected is to be rich in spirit.
Some people grow with responsibility; others just swell.
The more responsibilities a man assumes, the more likely he is to rise up to  meet them.
He that can take rest is greater than he that can take cities.
Men tire themselves in pursuit of rest.
No rest for the weary.
No rest for the wicked.
Rest is a good thing.
Rest is the sweet sauce of labor.
Too much rest is rust.
If you rest, you rust.
Rest, rust, rot.
The best way to rest is to get away from the rest.
Retirement is a prison to the fool, but a paradise to the wise.
Swift is heaven's retribution.
Quick returns make rich merchants.
If you want revenge, then dig two graves.
Revenge is dearly bought at the price of liberty.
Revenge is like biting a dog because he bit you.
Revenge is sweet.
The noblest revenge is to forgive.
There is small revenge in words, but words may be great.
Every revolution was first a thought in one man's mind.
Revolutions are not made by men in spectacles.
Revolutions are vices when they fail; they are virtues when successful.
Expect no reward for serving the wicked.
The hope of reward sweetens labor.
The reward is in the doing.
The reward of a good deed is to have done it.
The reward of good deeds endures.
The reward of good works is like dates-sweet and ripening late.
Though late, a due reward succeeds.
The rich and poor meet together: the Lord is the maker of them all.
The rich get richer, and the poor have children.
The rich ride in chaises; the poor walk with God.
A man is rich in proportion to the number of things which he can afford to let  alone.
A rich man can no more enter the kingdom of heaven than a camel can pass  through the eye of a needle.
A rich man for dogs and a poor man for babies.
A rich man has the world by the tail.
A rich man is either a rogue or a rogue's heir.
A rich man is happy while he is alive but sorry when he dies.
A rich man is never ugly in the eye of a girl.
A rich man knows not his friends.
A rich man's foolish sayings pass for wise ones.
A rich man's wooing is seldom long of doing.
A rich person ought to have a strong stomach.
All ask if a man be rich, not if he be good.
 Few rich men own their own property-their property owns them.
He alone is rich who makes proper use of his riches.
He is not rich who is not satisfied.
He is rich who does not desire more.
He is rich who owes nothing.
He that is rich need not live sparingly, and he that can live sparingly need not be  rich.
He that's ordained to be rich shall be rich.
If rich, be not elated; if poor, be not dejected.
It's better to live rich than die rich.
Labor not to be rich.
Many of us wish we were as rich as people think we are.
Rich men have no faults.
Rich people have mean ways, and poor people poor ways.
Richest is he who wants least.
The richest man is he who wants least.
The richest man carries nothing away with him but his shroud.
Enough is great riches.
Gathering of riches is a pleasant torment.
It is better to choose great riches than a good name, as name can't buy anything.
Moderate riches will carry you; if you have more, you must carry them.
No riches to sobriety.
Riches and cares are inseparable.
Riches and honor are like floating clouds.
Riches and virtue do not often keep each other company.
Riches are for spreading.
Riches have wings.
Riches, like manure, do no good until they are spread.
Riches make friends, and adversity proves them.
Riches serve a wise man but command a fool.
The abuse of riches is worse than the want of them.
The ransom of a man's life is his riches.
There is no royal road to riches.
To have what you want is riches, but to be able to do without is power.
Good riddance to bad rubbish.
A long rider sits deep.
Ridicule is a weak weapon.
Ridicule is the test of truth.
Never ridicule what you cannot comprehend.
There's more to riding than a pair of boots.
In the hands of a good shot every rifle is deadly.
A right cannot arise from a wrong.
Do right and fear no man; don't write and fear no woman.
Do right and fear not.
Equal rights for all, special privileges for none.
Public rights are to be preferred to private.
Rather be beaten in right than succeed in wrong.
Right is more precious than peace.
Right makes might.
Right will last, and wrong cannot endure.
Right will prevail.
Right wrongs nobody.
Right's right and wrong's wrong.
The greatest right in the world is the right to be wrong.
To do a great right, do a little wrong.
Your rights end where my nose begins.
 Be sure you are right, then go ahead.
It is better to be right than in the majority.
No one is always right.
Not everything legally right is morally right.
Some people would rather be right than pleasant.
Those who are right need not talk loudly.
Always do right; it will gratify some people and astonish the rest.
Always go right and you'll never go wrong.
He who lives right lives forever.
If you can't do a thing right, don't do it at all.
If you want something done right, do it yourself.
It's easy to die right, but it's hard to live right.
Under the coarsest rind, the sweetest meat.
Catch it in the rinse if you can't in the wash.
Nothing is learned in a riot.
Never a rip without a tear.
Quick ripe, quick rotten.
When you're ripe, you're rotten.
You learn as much ripping as sewing.
Because you rise earlier does not mean it will be daylight.
He that rises late must trot all day.
He who gets a name for early rising may sleep all day.
Our greatest glory consists not in never falling, but in rising every time we fall.
No risk, no gain.
Swift risks are often attended with precipitate falls.
It is better to risk than to delay overmuch.
A river runs its course.
A running river never freezes.
A still river never finds the ocean.
All rivers run to the sea.
Deep rivers move with silent majesty; shallow brooks are noisy.
Don't cross your rivers before you get to them.
Look at the river before you cross with the ferry.
Swift rivers travel far.
The river past, and God forgotten.
The time to go down the river is when the water is up.
When a river does not make a noise, it is either empty or very full.
Where there's a river there's a bridge.
A man never got lost on a straight road.
All roads lead to Rome.
Be sure you know the road before you act as guide.
Don't cross the road till you come to it.
Every road has a turning.
Every road has hills to be climbed.
Follow the straight road.
He who wishes to know the road through the mountains must ask those who  have already trodden it.
It is a long road that does not end.
It's a long road that goes nowhere.
It's a long road that has no turning.
Keep in the middle of the road.
Keep the common road and you are safe.
Muddy roads call de milepost a liar.
No flowery road leads to glory.
No road is long with good company.
Take the beaten road.
The beaten road is the safest.
The downward road is easy.
The lame man who keeps the right road outstrips the runner who keeps the  wrong one.
The longest road is sometimes the shortest way home.
The middle road is the safer.
The other track on the road is always the smoothest.
The right road is the shortest road.
The road of by-and-by leads to the town of never.
The road of life is lined with many milestones.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
There is no royal road to learning.
There is no worse robber than a bad book.
Long robe, little science.
It takes more than a robin to make spring.
Rocks are thrown only at fruitbearing trees.
The bigger the rock, the bigger the splash.
You can get used to anything except a rock in your shoe.
The old rocking chair will get you.
Bend the rod while it's hot.
Spare the rod and spoil the child.
A rogue's throat smells of hemp.
If you pity rogues, you are no great friend of honest men.
It is only rogues who feel the restraint of law.
It takes a rogue to catch a rogue.
Little rogues easily become great ones.
No rogue like the godly rogue.
Nobody calls himself a rogue.
Once a rogue, always a rogue.
One rogue does not betray another.
One rogue knows another.
When rogues fall out, honest men come by their own.
Rome was not built in a day.
See Rome and die.
When in Rome, do as the Romans.
An empty house needs no roof.
No roof can cover two families.
Thatch your roof before rainy weather; dig your well before you are thirsty.
The roof doesn't need mending when it's not raining.
Always room for one more.
The biggest room in the world is the room for improvement.
There's always room at the top.
There's more room outside than inside.
Where there is room in the heart, there is room in the house.
It is ill with the roost when the hens crow and the cock must remain silent.
He that's a good rooster will crow in any hen yard.
Hungry rooster never cackles when he scratches up a worm.
Rooster makes more racket dan de hen w'at lay de aig.
The rooster can crow, but it's the hen that delivers the goods.
The rooster crows to let us know, if we are wise, it's time to rise.
Take root and live.
Root, hog, or die.
Give a man rope enough and he'll hang himself.
Never talk of rope in the house of a man who has been hanged.
Pull gently at a weak rope.
A rose becomes more beautiful between two thorns.
A rose by another name would smell as sweet.
A rose is a rose is a rose is a rose.
If you make a bed of roses, you will have to sleep on the thorns also.
If you would gather roses, do not sow rotten seeds.
Lie on roses when young; lie on thorns when old.
No rose without thorns.
The greatest rose possesses the sharpest thorn.
The rose has its thorn, the peach its worm.
When gathering roses, look out for thorns.
You cannot pluck roses without fear of thorns nor enjoy a fair wife without  danger of horns.
Gather rosebuds while ye may.
Watched rosebuds open slowly.
Take the rough with the smooth.
When the going is rough, big potatoes come to the top.
Hoe your own row.
When you stop rowing, you start downstream.
Royalty consists not in great pomp but in great virtues.
Cheap rubber will stretch.
An inch of rubbing saves scrubbing.
A dealer in rubbish sounds the praise of rubbish.
Rubbish accumulates; mountains arise.
Rubbish is only matter out of place.
Rudeness will repel when courtesy would attract friends.
Going to ruin is silent work.
Ruin is most fatal when it begins at the bottom.
When a man lays the foundation of his own ruin, others will build on it.
Many have been ruined by buying good pennyworths.
A general rule must be generally understood.
As a rule, man's a fool: when it's hot he wants it cool, and when it's cool he  wants it hot, always wanting what is not.
Better no rule than a cruel rule.
By rote rule goes many a fool.
It's a poor rule that won't work both ways.
Keep the rule and the rule will keep you.
Preach not your musty rule.
Rules were made to be broken.
Submit to the rule you yourself laid down.
The first rule of the house is to bore nobody.
The only rule that works both ways is the golden rule.
There is only one rule for being a good talker: learn how to listen.
There's no rule without an exception.
 He who would rule must hear and be deaf, see and be blind.
It is better to rule by love than by fear.
Rule or ruin.
A customary ruler is the devil's bagpipe which the world does run after.
He that spills the rum loses that only; he that drinks it often loses that and  himself.
When the rum is in, the wit is out.
When you incline to drink rum, fill the glass half with water.
Anyone can start a rumor, but none can stop one.
A good run is better than a bad stand.
He who expects to run must crawl first.
It is useless to run; better to start on time.
Never run after a worrier or a bus: another one is sure to be along soon.
One can run only as fast as his legs will carry him.
They stumble that run fast.
You cannot run and bark at the same time.
You must run to win the race.
A good runner is never caught.
It's better to be a good runner than a bad stander.
It's no use running; you should start on time.
Running is better than standing.
The runt makes the best sow.
Scratch a Russian and you find a Tartar.
Much rust needs a rough file.
Rust wastes more than use.
Take away the rust from the silver and there'll come forth a pure vessel.
The rust rots the steel which use preserves.
More people rust out than wear out.
The only difference between a rut and a grave is that a grave is a little longer.
The Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath.
Sables feel proud in the absence of ermine.
A broken sack won't hold corn.
A sack is best tied before it is full.
An empty sack won't stand alone.
Everyone thinks his sack heaviest.
The standing sack fills quicker.
There comes nothing out of the sack but what was in it.
You can't overfill fortune's sacks.
Always put the saddle on the right horse.
High-powered saddles ain't half as rare as high-powered hombres in 'em.
If the saddle squeaks, it ain't bought.
It is better to be safe than sorry.
The way to be safe is never to feel secure.
Safety first.
The only safety is in God.
There's safety in numbers.
As the sail is set, so goes the ship.
Cut your sail according to your cloth.
Don't carry too much sail.
Hoist up the sail while the gale does last.
Keep your sails trimmed.
Make not your sail too large for your ship.
He that will not sail till all dangers are over must not put to sea.
It is safest sailing within reach of shore.
A good sailor likes a rough sea.
Any man can be a sailor on a calm sea.
Good sailors never die.
Many a man is a sailor who never owned a rowboat.
Sailors get their money like horses, but spend it like asses.
A sad saint is a sorry saint.
A saint has no value in his own house.
All are not saints that go to church.
Saint abroad and devil at home.
Young saint, old devil.
Draw your salary before spending it.
A green salesman will sell more than a blue one.
Don't rub salt in the wound.
Earn your salt.
Eat a peck of salt with a man before you trust him.
Give neither salt nor advice till asked for it.
One pinch of salt sets the whole pot to boiling.
Season all you hear with salt.
As you salute, you will be saluted.
There's a salve for every sore.
By a small sample we may judge the whole piece.
A little sand keeps you from slipping.
A person has to have a lot of sand to do something.
If you play with sand, you'll get dirty.
There is more than one grain of sand on the seashore.
The sands of time never run smooth.
No one will kill Santa Claus.
How the sapling bends, so grows the tree.
You may bend a sapling, but never a tree.
Sarcasm is the language of the devil.
Get behind me, Satan, and push hard.
Satan has some mischief still for idle hands to do.
Speak of Satan and you'll see his horns.
Satiety causes disgust; abundance begets indifference.
Satiety comes of riches, contumely of satiety.
Beneath satin and silk there is much suffering.
It's not improbable that a man may receive more solid satisfaction from pudding  while he is alive than from praise after he is dead.
Satisfaction is a result of a job well done.
Satisfaction is the best payment.
Saturday begun is never done.
Make not your sauce till you have caught the fish.
What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.
The cracked saucer lasts longest.
A long sausage and a short grace.
Every sausage knows if it is mek outer cow or dawg.
He who saves in little things can be liberal in great ones.
He who would save should begin with his mouth.
Let him save himself who can.
Save and have.
Save today, safe tomorrow.
Save when you are young to spend when you are old.
Save while you have; give while you live.
The man who will not save as he goes keeps his nose to the grindstone.
All things are cheap to the saving, dear to the wasteful.
If you would be wealthy, think of saving as well as getting.
Of saving comes having.
There's more in saving than there is in earning.
A dull saw cuts deepest.
All that you say about others, say not to them.
Don't say it--write it.
If you don't say anything, you won't be called upon to repeat it.
It is easier said than done.
It is not what you say, but how you say it.
It's not what you said; it's what you didn't say.
Learn to say before you sing.
Least said, soonest mended.
Less said, more done.
Nothing is said now that has not been said before.
Said first and thought after makes many a disaster.
Say little; write less; print least.
Say well is good, but do well is better.
Say what you mean and mean what you say.
The more you say, the less you shine.
They say is a tough old liar.
Watch what you say, when, and to whom.
What can't be said is often whistled.
What is said is said, and no sponge can wipe it out.
What people say behind your back is your standing in the community.
What's said can never be resaid.
If it isn't worth saying, don't say it at all.
Many a true saying is uttered through false teeth.
Saying and doing are two different things.
Saying so don't make it so.
Sayings go cheap.
Just scales and full measure injure no men.
A scandal is something that has to be bad to be good.
In scandal as in robbery, the receiver is as bad as the thief.
Scandal grows with the telling.
Scandal will rub out like dirt when it is dry.
Silence scandal by silence.
He jests at scars who never felt a wound.
A good scare is worth more to a man than good advice.
I'd rather be scared a minute than be a corpse the rest of my life.
Skeert ain't kilt nobody yit.
Scatter with one hand; gather with two.
You can't admire scenery on an empty stomach.
The best-laid schemes o' mice an' men gang aft agley.
A mere scholar, a mere ass.
Every good scholar is not a good schoolmaster.
Great scholars are not the shrewdest men.
He who robs a scholar robs the public.
Scholars are their country's treasure and the richest ornaments of the feast.
Scholars are wont to sell their birthright for a mess of learning.
No school ever rises above its administration.
Schools hide future premiers.
We learn not for school but for life.
You can send a man to school, but you can't make him learn.
Much science, much sorrow.
Science is nothing but good sense and reason.
Science moves on.
Dull scissors can't cut straight.
The scoffer is only trying to hide his own conscience.
He that teaches a scorner does an injury to himself.
Reprove not a scorner lest he hate you; rebuke a wise man and he will love you.
Every man must pay his scot.
Scratch a tender spot and it will soon be a sore.
Scratch where it itches.
There is a difference between scratching your leg and tearing it all to hell.
Scripture, like nature, lays down no definitions.
Calm seas do not make good sailors.
In a calm sea every man is a pilot.
Never go to the sea when a storm is coming.
Praise the sea, but keep on land.
The sea cannot be scooped up in a tumbler.
The sea is full of other fish.
The sea refuses no river.
They who cross the seas change their skies but not their natures.
When the sea is crossed, the saint is generally forgotten.
Wherever there's a sea, there's a ship.
The good seaman is known in bad weather.
A bad seamstress uses a long thread.
Nothing's so hard but a search will find it out.
There's a season for all things.
If your seat is hard to sit upon, stand up.
There are no reserved seats in the halls of fame or the chapels of faith.
Seconds are the gold dust of time.
You can't steal second base while your foot is on first.
Secrecy is the soul of all great designs.
A man who wishes to keep a secret should tell nothing in confidence.
A secret is either too good to keep or too bad not to tell.
A secret shared is no secret.
A secret should be a secret.
A secret's a secret until it's told.
Don't expect others to keep a secret you cannot keep yourself.
If it is a secret, don't tell it to a woman.
If you reveal your secret, you yield your liberty.
If you want to keep a secret, keep it to yourself.
It is no secret that is known to three.
It is not wise to seek a secret, and honest not to reveal it.
None are so fond of secrets as those who do not mean to keep them.
Secrets are never long-lived.
Tell your secret to your servant and you make him your master.
The great secret of life is to hear lessons and not teach them.
The only secret a woman can keep is her age.
The secret of being loved is being lovable.
The secret of life is not to do what you like but to like what you do.
The secret of success in conversation is to be able to disagree without being  disagreeable.
The secret to being lovable is to be unselfish.
Two can keep a secret if one is dead.
Nothing is so secret but time and truth will reveal it.
He that is too secure is not safe.
Security is man's downfall.
There's security in numbers.
Better seen than heard.
Blessed are they that have not seen and yet have believed.
He who cannot see well should go softly.
See yourself as others see you.
Seldom seen, soon forgotten.
What we see depends mainly on what we look for.
What you don't see you won't get hung for.
Destroy the seed of evil or it will grow up to your ruin.
The seeds of great things are often small.
Seeing is believing.
 Seek and you shall find; knock and it shall be opened unto you.
Who seeks what he should not finds what he would not.
Deny self for self's sake.
Self is the best servant.
Self loves itself best.
Self-conceit is harder to cure than cancer.
Self-conceit often leads to self-destruction.
Self-confidence is the first requisite of great undertakings.
Self-conquest is the greatest of all victories.
Self-deceit is the easiest of any.
Self-defense is nature's oldest law.
Self-exaltation is the fool's paradise.
Self-help is the best help.
Self-interest is the beginning of wisdom.
Self-interest is the rule, self-sacrifice the exception.
Selfishness is harder to kill than a cat.
Self-praise is half slander.
Self-praise is no recommendation.
Self-praise, no honor.
Self-praise stinks.
Self-preservation is the first law of nature.
Never lose your self-respect: if that be lost, all is lost.
Few are those who err on the side of self-restraint.
Self-seekers are self-losers.
Sell honestly, but not honesty.
A handful of common sense is worth a bushel of learning.
Better sense in the head than cents in the pocket.
Bought sense is the best sense.
Common sense is always worth more than cunning.
Common sense is not so common.
Common sense is the rarest thing in the world and the most valuable.
Common sense is very uncommon with a lot of people.
Horse sense is the result of stable thinking.
It is hard to talk sense, but harder to find listeners if you do.
No sense, no feeling.
Sense comes with age.
There is some sense in every nonsense.
Where sense is wanting, everything is wanting.
Sensuality is the grave of the soul.
Blessed is he who takes himself seriously.
Great sermons lead the people to praise the preacher; good preaching leads the  people to praise the Saviour.
Sermons should be weighty but not heavy.
The best sermon is a good life.
How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is to have a thankless child.
A good servant makes a good master.
A good servant must have good wages.
A good servant never lacks a master.
A good servant should have the back of an ass, the tongue of a sheep, and the  snout of a swine.
A true servant will deceive his master never.
If you would have a faithful servant that you would like, serve yourself.
He who serves is not free.
Serve yourself if you would be well served.
They also serve who only stand and wait.
Faithful service should be long remembered.
Service is not spelled "serves.
The big word is service.
The most acceptable service of God is doing good to man.
If you are hotheaded, keep in the shade.
Beware lest you lose the substance by grasping the shadow.
No man sees the shadow who faces the sun.
Once standing upright, don't worry if your shadow is crooked.
He who has no shame has no honor.
Past shame, past grace.
Shame generally follows vice.
 Share a little, help a lot.
Share and share alike.
A lazy sheep thinks its wool heavy.
Each one thinks his sheep is the blackest.
Every sheep with its like.
He that makes himself a sheep shall be eaten by the wolves.
Many patient sheep will enter one stall.
Might as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb.
One scabbed sheep will mar a flock.
One sheep follows another.
One sickly sheep infects the flock and poisons all the rest.
The she-goat brings no sheep into the world.
The sheep that bleats loses a mouthful.
There's a black sheep in every family.
Don't cut the sheet to mend a dishcloth.
One clean sheet will not soil another.
A bad shift is better than none.
Never be breaking your shin on a stool that is not in your way.
Never take a shingle off the roof.
There's no shingle so thin that it doesn't have two sides.
A bad ship never casts anchor in port.
A great ship asks for deeper water.
A ship under sail and a big-bellied woman are the handsomest two things that  can be seen.
An anchored ship doesn't carry much cargo.
Don't give up the ship.
Don't spoil the ship for half a penny's worth of tar.
Every ship needs a captain.
He who scuttles the ship he arrives in may have to swim when he leaves.
In calm waters every ship has a good captain.
Judge not of a ship as she lies on the stocks.
Ships don't come in, they are brought in.
Small ships should stay near the shore; larger ships may venture more.
Each man makes his own shipwreck.
He who has suffered shipwreck fears to sail upon the seas.
Let another's shipwreck be your sea work.
Close sits my shirt, but closer my skin.
The shirt is nearer than the coat.
Whoever steals the neighbor's shirt usually dies without his own.
You can't take the shirt off a naked man.
From shirtsleeves to shirtsleeves in three generations.
Shirtsleeves make the best uniform.
A black shoe makes a blithe heart.
Better cut the shoe than pinch the foot.
Better wear out shoes than sheets.
Cheap shoes squeak.
Don't pay for dead men's shoes.
Don't put the shoe on unless it fits.
Don't throw away your old shoes before you get new ones Rec.
Every shoe fits not every foot.
Everyone knows where his shoe pinches.
He that waits for dead men's shoes may go a long time barefoot.
He who makes shoes goes barefoot.
I work for young shoes, not old shoes.
If the shoe fits, put it on.
New shoes are like new friends--hard to get used to.
Old shoes are easy, old friends are best.
Old shoes wear best.
The devil's shoes never squeak.
The pretty shoe often pinches the foot.
The squeaking shoe isn't paid for.
There is never an old shoe but there is a sock to fit it.
There was never a shoe but had its mate.
We never feel the shoe until it pinches our own foot.
Wear my shoes and you'll know where they pinch.
Shoemaker, stick to your last.
The shoemaker's child goes barefoot.
The shoot at length becomes a tree.
He who shoots may hit at last.
If you can't shoot it down, run it down.
A good shop needs no sign.
It is easy to open a shop but hard to keep it open.
Keep your shop and your shop will keep you.
A shortcut is often a wrong cut.
One shot meat; two shots maybe; three shots no good.
You can get only one shot at a shell bird.
Put your shoulder to the wheel.
Who lets another sit on his shoulder will soon have him on his head.
Do not shout until you are out of the woods.
Some people think that the louder they shout, the more persuasive their  argument is.
It's the shovel that laughs at the poker.
Outside show is poor substitute for inner worth.
Outside show, inside woe.
The show must go on.
Trust not to outward show.
It's the way you show up at the showdown that counts.
A bee was never caught in a shower.
A heavy shower is soon over.
A sunshining shower never lasts half an hour.
April showers bring May flowers.
Small showers last long, but sudden storms are short.
Better a shrew than a sheep.
Every man can tame a shrew but he that has her.
A shrewd man feathers his own nest.
A shroud has no pockets.
A man is shy in another man's corner.
The sick man sleeps when the debtor cannot.
The sickest is not the nearest to the grave.
Don't thrust your sickle into another's corn.
Sickness comes in haste and goes at leisure.
Sickness is felt, but health not at all.
Sickness tells us what we are.
The chamber of sickness is the chapel of devotion.
The sickness of the body may prove the health of the mind.
Always look on the bright side.
Don't get up on the wrong side of the bed.
Everyone has his weak side.
It is better to be on the safe side.
There are three sides to every story--your side, my side, and the right side.
There are two sides to everything.
There's a good and bad side of everything.
Write on one side of the paper but on both sides of the subject.
Don't let the sideshow run away with the circus.
It's easy to sigh, but it's better to pray.
Out of sight, out of mind.
All signs fail in dry weather.
Don't always believe in signs.
The surest sign of age is loneliness.
Nothing is more useful to a man than silence.
Silence and reflection cause dejection.
Silence gives consent.
Silence in time of suffering is best.
Silence is a fine jewel for a woman, but it is little worn.
Silence is a friend that betrays no man.
Silence is a great peacemaker.
Silence is a rare jewel.
Silence is a still noise.
Silence is equivalent to confession.
Silence is golden.
Silence is not always a sign of wisdom, but babbling is ever a folly.
Silence is often the key to success.
Silence is sometimes the severest criticism.
Silence is the best answer to the stupid.
Silence is the best policy.
Silence is the fittest reply to folly.
Silence is the ornament of the ignorant.
Silence is the virtue of a fool.
Silence is wisdom when speaking is folly.
The tree of silence bears the fruit of peace.
Be silent and safe: silence never betrays you.
Be silent if you have nothing worth saying.
He that knows not when to be silent knows not when to speak.
He who knows how to keep silent knows a great deal.
It is better to remain silent and be thought of as a fool than to speak and prove  the same.
All that rustles is not silk.
Silks and satins, scarlet and velvet put out the kitchen fire.
All complain of want of silver but none of want of sense.
If you haven't silver in your purse, you should have silk on your tongue.
Little silver, much love.
No silver, no servant.
Silver has a silver sound.
When you go to buy, don't show your silver.
Simple things in life are best.
The simple are easily deceived.
Simplicity is truth's most becoming garb.
The expression of truth is simplicity.
A sin confessed is half forgiven.
Commit a sin thrice and you will think it allowable.
Condemn the sin, not the sinner.
Every man has his besetting sin.
Every sin carries its own punishment.
He that swims in sin will sink in sorrow.
Innumerable sins bring countless sorrows.
It is a sin for any man to do less than his best.
It is not a sin to sell dear, but it is to make ill measure.
Let him that is without sin cast the first stone.
Men are punished by their sins, not for them.
Old sins breed new shame.
Old sins have long shadows.
One sin another does provoke.
Sin and happiness cannot dwell together.
Sin concealed needs two forgivings.
Sin has many tools, but a lie is the handle which fits them all.
Sin is easier to stand than shame.
Sin is the seed, and death is the harvest.
Sin may be clasped so close we cannot see its face.
Sin, sorrow, and work are the things that men can't shirk.
The sins of fathers are visited on the children.
The sins of the offenders are the strength of the tyrants.
Whosoever commits sin is the servant of sin.
Your sins will find you out.
He who has sinned has already punished himself.
Sin in haste; repent at leisure.
They that sin are enemies to themselves.
Sincerity gives wings to power.
Sincerity is the mortar of friendship.
Let him who ain't sinful haul first on the rope.
He who sings drives away his cares.
He who sings in summer will weep in winter.
Who cannot sing may whistle.
Live with a singer if you would learn to sing.
Singing on the street, disappointment you will meet.
Sink or swim.
 Once a sinner, always a sinner.
The greater the sinner, the greater the saint.
He sits not sure that sits too high.
It is better to sit still than to rise to fall.
Sit before you fall.
'Tis as cheap sitting as standing.
There are no hopeless situations; there are only hopeless men.
Do not judge a thing by its size.
It doesn't depend upon size, or a cow would catch a rabbit.
In skating over thin ice, our safety is our speed.
More belongs to skating than a pair of skates.
No man is qualified to remove the skeleton from his own closet.
There's a skeleton in every family closet.
Skepticism is slow suicide.
 If skill could be acquired by watching, dogs would be butchers.
Skill and assurance are an invincible couple.
Skill is better than strength.
Tote your own skillet.
The skin you love to touch isn't nearly so handy around the house as dishpan  hands.
The wrinkled skin easily conceals a scar.
It's not the skirt that breaks people; it's the chiffon ruffles.
A skunk is ready to give you a scent anytime.
A skunk smells its own hole first.
Every man must skin his own skunk.
If you've been near a skunk, don't say you haven't been.
You can't keep from getting soiled if you fight with a skunk.
Every sky has its cloud.
If the sky falls we shall catch larks.
Slander expires at a good woman's door.
Slander flings stones at itself.
Slander is sharper than the sword.
Slander that is raised is ill to fell.
As the slave departs, the man returns.
Better starve free than be a slave.
Better the devil's than a woman's slave.
Do not be a slave to fashion.
He is a slave to the greatest slave who serves none but himself.
He is still a slave whose limbs alone are freed.
He that is one man's slave is free from none.
None can be free who is a slave to his passions.
The blow that liberates the slave sets the master free.
Slavery enchains a few; more enchain themselves to slavery.
Slavery is a weed that grows in every soil.
Slavery is too high a price to pay for an easy living.
The sign of slavery is to have a price and to be bought for it.
Let your midday sleep be short or none at all.
Long sleep makes a bare back.
One hour's sleep before midnight is worth three after.
The sleep of a laboring man is sweet.
Too much sleep is a burden.
He sleeps well who is not conscious that he sleeps ill.
He who sleeps late has short days.
Sleep over it or you may weep over it.
Some sleep five hours; nature requires seven, laziness nine, and wickedness  eleven.
There shall be sleeping enough in the grave.
'Tis sleight, not strength, that gives the greatest lift.
You never miss a slice from a cut loaf.
One can't slide uphill.
A slip of the foot and you may soon recover, but a slip of the tongue you may  never get over.
A slip of the lip might sink a ship.
A slip of the tongue is not fault of the mind.
Better a slip with the foot than with the tongue.
Every slip is not a fall.
There is many a slip twixt cup and lip.
Sloth breeds poverty.
Sloth is the mother of poverty.
Sloth is the mother of vice.
Sloth, like rust, consumes faster than labor wears, while the used key is always  bright.
Sloth makes all things difficult, but industry makes all things easy.
Sloth wears out the body while it corrodes the mind.
If you go mo' slow, you'll go mo' fast.
Slow and easy wins the race.
Slow but sure.
Slow things are sure things.
Slowpokes get busy when the hour gets late.
Scratch a sluggard and find a saint.
Sluggards cause their own misfortune.
Sluggards work best when the sun's in the west.
The slumberers are the prey of the wakeful.
One smack is worth a dozen scats.
Many small makes a great.
Better to be small and shine than to be great and cast a shadow.
If you feel you're too small to do big things, then do big things in a small way.
No matter how small you are, you are too big to be dishonest.
With small men no great thing can be accomplished.
Most men would rather say a smart thing than do one.
The strength of a smell depends on the distance of its travel.
They that smell least smell best.
A smile costs nothing but gives much.
A smile goes a long way.
A smile is the same in any language--easily understood.
A smile is worth a million dollars.
A smile is worth its face value.
A smile will sway the universe.
A smile will take a lot of the kick out of a disappointment.
A tender smile is sorrow's only balm.
Bear it with a smile.
Better the last smile than the first laughter.
No one needs a smile quite so much as he who has none to give away.
One smile is worth a thousand tears.
Smiles turn swiftly to tears.
The one with a smile always wins.
There are daggers behind men's smiles.
You are not fully dressed until you put on a smile.
A man who can smile when he feels like cussin' has the qualities of a winner.
He who cannot smile ought not own a shop.
He who smiles when he walks away will live to fight another day.
Smile and the world smiles with you.
The man that's worthwhile is the man that can smile.
Keep smiling when things are at their worst.
A warm smoke is better than a cold fog.
It's no use crabbing at the smoke when the barn's burning down.
Smoke follows beauty.
There is no fire without some smoke.
Where there is smoke, there is fire.
It is better to smoke in this world than in the next.
Empty smokehouse makes de pullet holler.
An old smuggler makes a good custom's officer.
A man once bitten by a snake will jump at the sight of a rope in his path.
A snake crawls on its own stomach, but a flea crawls on everybody else.
It takes a snake to catch a snake.
When you see a snake, never mind where he came from.
He who lays a snare for another, himself falls into it.
A sneer cannot be answered.
Sneers are poor weapons at the best.
Snobbery is the pride of those not sure of their own position.
A fall of snow in May is worth a ton of hay.
A snow year, a rich year.
Just because there's snow on the roof, that doesn't mean the fire's out inside.
Snow is the poor man's fertilizer.
Never stint soap and water.
Soap and water will not make a Negro's face white.
You can't eat soap and wash with it.
Soar not too high to fall, but stoop to rise.
What soberness conceals, drunkenness reveals.
He who treads softly goes far.
Any soil will do to bury in.
Soil and friendship must be cultivated.
A beaten soldier fears a reed.
A good soldier never looks back.
A good soldier never shines the heels of his shoes.
A live soldier is better than a dead hero.
A soldier will remember his friend.
A soldier, fire, and water soon make room for themselves.
All are not soldiers who go to war.
He is not a good soldier who fights with his tongue.
Many soldiers are brave at the table who are cowards in the field.
Old soldiers never die.
One pair of good soles is better than two tops.
Solitude is at times the best society.
Better some than none.
You can't beat somebody with nobody.
There's always someplace else to go.
A second-rate something is better than a first-rate nothing.
Better something than nothing.
Don't make something out of nothing.
Don't start something you can't finish.
Something tastes better than nothing.
When you get something for nothing, someone is getting nothing for something.
You don't get something for nothing.
You get out of something only what you put in.
A foolish son is the calamity of his father, and the contentions of a wife are a  continual dropping.
A good son is the light of the family.
A good son makes a good husband.
A son's a son till he gets him a wife; a daughter's a daughter all of her life.
A wise son hears his father's instructions.
A wise son makes a glad father, but a foolish son is the heaviness of his mother.
He that gathers in the summer is a wise son.
It is a wise son that knows his own father.
Marry your son when you please and your daughter when you can.
The son is father to the man.
Who has no son has no satisfaction.
A good song is none the worse for being sung twice.
A song will outlive sermons in the memory.
In whose heart there is no song, to him the miles are many and long.
Lightsome songs make a merry gait.
New songs are eagerly sung.
Sweet song has betrayed many.
The fellow who works for a song has trouble meeting his notes.
The sweetest songs are sung in sorrow.
The sweetest songs are those that tell of saddest thoughts.
Better three hours too soon than a minute too late.
The sooner the better.
Do not rip up old sores.
Don't nurse your sorrows.
Fat sorrow is better than lean sorrow.
Jesting lies bring serious sorrows.
Light sorrows speak; great ones are dumb.
Make not two sorrows of one.
Our sorrows are less if in our anguish we find a partner in distress.
Rejoice not in another's sorrow.
Sorrow for the husband is like a pain in the elbow--sharp and short.
Sorrow is better than laughter.
Sorrow is only grain deep.
Sorrow never comes singly.
Sorrow remains when joy is but a blast.
Sorrow treads upon the heels of mirth.
Sorrows remembered sweeten present joy.
There's no sorrow on this earth that can't be cured in heaven.
When sorrow is asleep, wake it not.
A penny soul never 'came twopence.
A soul built of solid rock will not falter.
As cold water to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far country.
Don't trade your soul for a mess of pottage.
Great souls have will; feeble ones only have wishes.
Great souls suffer in silence.
If you've lost your soul, you've lost all.
Keep your soul and your shop will keep you.
Many people will sell their souls for money.
Mean souls, like mean pictures, are often found in good-looking frames.
Souls are not saved in bundles.
The soul is a temple.
To the hungry soul, every bitter thing is sweet.
The sound makes the song.
Too much sour spoils the sweet.
You must take the sour with the sweet.
Consider the source.
A barren sow was never good to pigs.
If you like the sow, you like her litter.
Little knows the fat sow what the lean one thinks.
The silent sow gets all the swill.
You need not grease a fat sow.
What one man sows another man reaps.
You shall reap what you sow.
No sowing, no reaping.
A spade and a thought should never be allowed to rust.
Better spare at the brim than at the bottom.
Better spared than ill spent.
It is too late to spare when the bottom is bare.
Spare and have is better than spend and crave.
Spare well and spend well.
Spare when you are young and spend when you are old.
Too late to spare when all is spent.
A little spark kindles a great fire.
Even a spark is fire.
Sparks become flame.
Two sparrows upon one ear of corn are not likely to agree.
Do not speak badly of yourself and expect people to respect you.
He cannot speak well that cannot hold his tongue.
He that speaks much is much mistaken.
He who does not speak well is not heard.
He who speaks and has nothing to say says it cleverly.
He who speaks not till the last may profit by the follies of the rash.
If you cannot speak well of a person, don't speak of him at all.
Many speak much who cannot speak well.
Never speak to deceive nor listen to betray.
Never trust a man who speaks well of everybody.
Speak fair, think what you will.
Speak fitly or be silent wisely.
Speak gently: it is better to rule by love than by fear.
Speak little; do much.
Speak little; speak well.
Speak neither well nor ill of yourself.
Speak not rather than speak ill.
Speak now or forever hold your peace.
Speak so that even he who runs must understand.
Speak softly and carry a big stick.
Speak up or shut up.
Speak well of everyone if you speak of them at all.
Speak what you feel, not what you ought to.
Speak when you are spoken to; come when you are called.
Speaking without thinking is shooting without aiming.
Specialists are people who know more and more about less and less until they  know everything about nothing.
The poorest specimen of fish is he who is selfish.
Through green spectacles the world is green.
Courteous speech is worth much and costs little.
Mild speech enchains the heart.
More have repented speech than silence.
Much speech, less sense.
Speech is silver; silence is golden.
Speech is the gift of all but the thought of few.
Speech is the index of the mind.
Speech was given a man to conceal his thoughts.
Speed does not take heed.
Speed gets you nowhere if you're headed in the wrong direction.
They walk with speed who walk alone.
If you can't spell something, you don't know it.
He who spends more than he should shall not have to spend when he would.
Spend and God will send.
Whatever you have, spend less.
Who spends before he thinks, will beg before he dies.
Great spenders are bad lenders.
He that has the spice may season as he pleases.
A spider spins his web strand by strand.
Some spare at the spigot and let out at the bunghole.
A broken spirit dries the bones.
A child's spirit is easily broken and difficult to heal.
Be sure you raise no more spirits than you can conjure down.
He that rules his spirit is better than he that takes a city.
It's the spirit that counts.
The spirit is willing but the flesh is weak.
Do not spit into the well you may have to drink out of.
Who spits against the wind spits in his own face.
Wish in one hand and spit in the other.
You splash me, I splash you.
That is well spoken that is well taken.
As a spoon can't taste the flavor of the soup, a fool in the company of the wise  learns nothing.
Every man is not born with a silver spoon in his mouth.
He must have a long spoon who sups with the devil.
Make a spoon or spoil a horn.
When de spoon want anything, it better go ter de bowl.
A good sport always wins.
It is a poor sport that is not worth a candle.
It is a sport to a fool to do mischief, but a man of understanding has wisdom.
Scratch a tender spot and it will soon be a sore.
Set a sprat to catch a mackerel.
A dry spring, a rainy summer.
If there's spring in winter and winter in spring, the year won't be good for  anything.
In the spring a young man's fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love.
From a pure spring, pure water flows.
If you foul the spring, you can't expect the stream to be pure.
Muddy springs will have muddy streams.
De springhouse may freeze, but niggers'll keep de shuckpen warm.
Springtime is ring time.
A spur in the head is worth two in the feet.
The spur in front will not drive you as fast as the spur that is behind.
The spur won't hurt when the hide is thick.
Untimeous spurring spoils the steed.
Look for squalls, but don't make them.
A stab in the back is worse than a kick in the face.
There is stability in heaven.
It's no use to lock the stable after the horse has been stolen.
The stable wears out a horse more than the road.
Uphill bear him; downhill spare him; on the level let him trot; in stable forget  him not.
Keep the staff in your own hand.
Never trust a broken staff.
The stain of wine is like a stain of blood.
They who enter by the back stairs may expect to be shown out at the window.
An ill stake stands the longest.
The postage stamp's usefulness lies in the ability to stick.
Don't stand when you can sit, and don't sit when you can lie down.
Stand up, speak up, and shut up.
When you think you stand, take heed-you may fall.
Aim for the stars.
Don't let the stars get in your eyes.
Follow your own star.
Stars are not seen by sunshine.
There will always be stars if you look to see them.
Those who look up see the stars.
When it gets dark, the stars come out.
You can't live on a star.
You can't walk and look at the stars if you have a stone in your shoe.
The fewer to stare, the better the fare.
Stargazers are poor pathfinders.
A good start is half the race.
An early start and a steady pace make the slowest win the race.
Bad start, good ending.
Don't start anything you can't finish.
Start sooner, go slower, and live longer.
Getting started is half of the fight.
The statesman makes the occasion, but the occasion makes the politician.
De littler de station, de bigger de agent.
The little station is the safest.
Thirteen staves and never a hoop will not make a barrel.
Some people stay longer in an hour than others stay in a week.
He who steals will always fail.
It's easy to steal from a cut loaf.
Steal all you can with your eyes but never with your hands.
The steam that blows the whistle never turns the wheel.
A step in time saves nine.
Don't stare at the steps of success--step up the stairs.
Don't take two steps and slide back three.
If you are out of step with everyone else, you had better look.
It's the first step that costs.
Make one wrong step and down you go.
One step astray is one step away.
Slow are the steps of those who leave their hearts behind.
Step by step, one goes a long way.
The first step is the hardest.
The hardest step is over the threshold.
There is a slippery step at every man's door.
There are as many good stepmothers as white ravens.
Let him stew in his own brew.
A crooked stick makes a straight fire.
A crooked stick will have a crooked shadow.
A straight stick is crooked in the water.
Don't count your sticks till the lumber's on the pile.
Little sticks kindle large fires.
One stick is easier broken than a bunch.
Sticks and stones may break my bones, but names will never hurt me.
When you pick up a stick at one end, you also pick up the other end.
You can't make a crooked stick lay straight.
Stick in until you stick out.
Stick together or get stuck separately.
A stingy man gives an egg to get a chicken.
If you're not stingy, you're not wealthy, and if you're not wealthy, you're not  stingy.
He that is conscious of a stink in his breeches is jealous of every wrinkle in  another's nose.
The more you stir a stink, the louder it smells.
You'll have to preach according to your stipend.
A dropped stitch is soon a hole.
A stitch in time saves nine.
An empty stomach is not a good political adviser.
An empty stomach may sometimes vomit.
Full stomach, contented heart.
Full stomachs make empty heads.
If it were not for the stomach, the back would wear gold.
Lazy folks' stomachs don't get tired.
Stuff not your stomach with sweets if you choose to keep your sweet tooth.
The stomach carries the feet.
When the stomach is full the heart is glad.
You can win a man through his stomach.
A little stone may upset a large cart.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
A rugged stone grows smooth from hand to hand.
A small stone in shoe causes large pain in foot.
A stone that may fit in the wall is never left by the way.
Don't throw stones at glass houses.
Don't throw stones at your neighbors if your own windows are glass.
He who sits on stone rests twice.
It is disgraceful to stumble against the same stone twice.
No man can flay a stone.
No stone ever falls alone.
One stone alone cannot grind corn.
One stone does not make a wall.
The man who flings a stone up a mountainside may have it rolled back upon  himself.
Throw a stone in a pack of dogs, and the one that's hit will holler.
Throw a stone in the mud and it splashes in your face.
Watch out for the rolling stone.
Who holds his peace and gathers stones will find a time to throw them.
Between two stools we come to the ground.
Stoop low and it will save you many a bump through life.
Stoop to conquer.
Stop, look, listen.
He who has a store should attend to it.
The worst store is a maid unbestowed.
The tongue's great storehouse is the heart.
After the storm comes the calm.
Don't worry over a storm in a teapot.
It's always calm before the storm.
Ride in the whirlwind and direct the storm.
Storms make oaks take deeper root.
The harder the storm, the sooner it's over.
Don't believe that story true that ought not to be true.
It's a good story that fills the belly.
No story of success ever starts with if and but.
One story is good till another is told.
He who sits on a hot stove shall rise again.
Distant stovewood is good stovewood.
Be slow to take when strangers haste to give.
It is better to be beaten by your own man than kissed by a stranger.
The tighter the burden strap, 'tis most likely to break.
A straw shows which way the wind blows.
People who live in straw houses shouldn't throw bombs.
The last straw will break the camel's back.
Anything is good with strawberries and cream.
One man's strawberries are another man's hives.
A dry stream carries no water.
A stream never rises higher than its source.
Don't change horses in the middle of the stream.
He that's carried down the stream need not row.
It's a steady stream that wears a stone.
It's easy going with the stream.
Little streams make big rivers.
Never cross the stream before you come to it.
Shallow streams make the most noise.
Strive not against the stream.
The stream is always purer at its source.
We must run with the stream.
 An easy street is hard to find.
Easy street never leads anywhere.
Easy street often turns out to be nothing more than a blind alley.
On anxiety street there are plenty of neighbors.
Don't get on the streetcar before it stops.
 Do not burden today's strength with tomorrow's load.
In unity there is strength.
It is not strength but art that obtains the prize.
The strength will with the burden grow.
There is strength in numbers.
We all have strength enough to bear the misfortunes of others.
Where there is great strength, there ain't apt to be much gumption.
Strife makes friendship stronger.
If you have strings, pull them.
It's good to have two strings to one's bow.
String cannot be made from stone.
The tighter the string, the sooner it will break.
Strive and succeed.
Strive though you fail.
Who may not strive may yet fulfill the harder task of standing still.
 Different strokes for different folks.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
One stroke fells not an oak.
The strong and the weak cannot keep company.
He that is not strong should be cunning.
The strong man and the waterfall channel their own path.
To be strong is to be happy.
There is stubble only where the harvest has been.
If the student hasn't learned, the teacher hasn't taught.
You can lead a student to college, but you cannot make him think.
Diligent study makes for a full cup of life's pleasures.
It's not the number of hours you study that counts, but how you study.
Let him study who wishes to get knowledge.
Study long and study wrong.
The more we study, the more we discover our ignorance.
The more you study, the more you forget.
A stumble may prevent a fall.
To stumble once is better than to be always tottering.
Wisely and slowly--they stumble that run fast.
You will not stumble while on your knees.
Don't be stumbling blocks but stepping-stones.
Make your stumbling blocks steppingstones.
The only difference between stumbling blocks and stepping-stones is the way  you use them.
A bad style is better than a lewd story.
Style is the dress of thoughts.
The style is the man.
Little subjects decide big ones.
You may talk too much on the best of subjects.
Beware lest you lose the substance by grasping the shadow.
If at first you don't succeed, try, try again.
Succeed or die trying.
The key to success is the ability to apply the seat of the pants to the seat of a  chair.
A man is really a success when flattery gives him a headache instead of a big  head.
A selfish success is a successful failure.
Confidence in success is almost success.
Deserve success and it will come.
Few have earned large success who didn't save part of their small earnings.
Getting what you go after is called success, but liking it while you are getting it  is happiness.
Great success is always preceded by great preparation.
In peace or in war, your success of tomorrow depends upon the preparation you  are making today.
In success be moderate.
Just pushing ahead will open the door to success much quicker than pulling.
Meet success like a gentleman and disaster like a man.
Men buy success by giving up a lot of things they want for what they want most  of all.
No story of success ever starts with if and but.
Nothing succeeds like success.
One thing better than success is to be worthy of success.
Success at first often undoes men at last.
Success comes in cans, failures in can'ts.
Success comes in rising every time you fall.
Success comes to those who are too busy to look for it.
Success covers a multitude of blunders.
Success has ruined many a man.
Success is a chain of gold--but it is a chain.
Success is a matter of using one's time well.
Success is first a dream.
Success is never blamed.
Success is never final.
Success is operated on a self-service basis.
Success is the child of audacity.
Success is the size of a hole a man can leave when he dies.
Success is two percent inspiration and ninety-eight percent perspiration.
Success is where you find it.
Success makes a fool seem wise.
Success makes fools admired, makes villains honest.
Success makes success as money makes money.
Success never needs an excuse.
Success often costs more than it is worth.
Success ruins a fool.
Success soon pales.
The door of the room to success always swings on the hinges of opposition.
The door to success is labeled push.
The first element of success is the will to succeed.
The more you lean on somebody else, the leaner your chances of success.
The secret of success is constancy to purpose.
The success of the wicked entices many more.
The worst use that can be made of success is to boast of it.
There is no such thing as success in bad business.
When we think we may fail, we are often near success.
You can't be a howling success by simply howling.
You won't find many rules for success that work unless you do.
Count no man successful until he is dead.
Successful people are the ones who admit they haven't accomplished  everything.
Successful people do what failures put off until tomorrow.
Succor never comes too late.
 Never give a sucker an even break.
Suckers will bite.
There's a sucker born every minute.
Keep out of the suction of those who drift backward.
A man in suffering finds relief in rehearsing his ills.
Even sugar itself may spoil a good dish.
If you want sugar, ask for it; don't go scratching around the bowl.
The sugar of life is often bittersweet.
Use sugar more than vinegar.
It is easier to make a suggestion than to carry it out.
That suit is best that best fits me.
The last suitor wins the maid.
Hot summer, cold winter.
After the clouds, the sun shines.
As the sun rises, man's hope revives.
Behind the clouds, the sun is shining.
February sun is dearly won.
If you can't be the sun, be a star.
In every country the sun rises in the mornning.
Let not the sun set on your anger.
Never let the sun set on work undone.
Never shut out the January sun.
No sun, no showers, no summer flowers.
Somewhere the sun is shining; somewhere a little rain is falling.
Sun follows the rain.
The morning sun never lasts a day.
The same sun that will melt butter will harden clay.
The sun doesn't shine on both sides of the hedge at once.
The sun is not less bright for sitting on a dungh Ill.
The sun never hurt an honest man's face.
The sun never repents of the good he does, nor does he ever demand a  recompense.
The sun never sets on the British Isles.
The sun shines on all the world.
The sun shines on the evil as well as the good.
The sun will shine through the darkest clouds.
Though the sun shine, leave not your cloak at home.
When the sun goes red to bed, 'twill rain tomorrow, it is said.
When the sun is in the west, lazy folks work best.
While the sun is shining, it is day.
You can't see the sun when you're crying.
A single sunbeam drives away many shadows.
Sunday oils the wheels of the week.
Keep your sunny side up.
Look on the sunny side of life.
The sunrise never failed us yet.
After sunshine come showers; after pleasure comes sorrow.
All sunshine makes a desert.
Stand in the sunshine and the shadow will fall beh Ind.
Sunshine and showers make up life's hours.
Sunshine follows rain.
Take the sunshine with the rain.
We never appreciate the sunshine and the rainbow until the storm clouds hang  low.
He who sups late sups well.
Hot sup, hot swallow.
Yield to your superiors.
Better lose a supper than have a hundred physicians.
Eat few suppers and you'll need few medicines.
He that steals the old man's supper does him no wrong.
Lightest suppers make long lives.
Suppers kill more than the greatest doctors can cure.
Better go to bed supperless than rise in debt.
Sleep without supping and wake without owing.
Better sure than sorry.
There is nothing sure under the sun.
He that is surety for another is never sure himself Rec.
A good surgeon must have an eagle's eye, a man's heart, and a lady's hand.
Call not a surgeon before you are wounded.
A man surprised is half beaten.
Every compromise is surrender and invites new demands.
Suspicion always haunts the guilty party.
Suspicion breeds phantoms.
Suspicion is no less an enemy to virtue than to happiness.
Suspicion may be no fault, but showing it may be a great one.
One swallow does not make a summer.
A man must not swallow more than he can digest.
The swan sings when death comes.
He who swears, swears in vain.
No sweat, no sweet.
Sweat and be saved.
Every sweet has its bitter.
He deserves not sweet that will not taste of sour.
One man's sweet is another man's sour.
Sweets to the sweet and sour to the sour.
Too much sweet spoils the best coffee.
We know the sweet when we have tasted the bitter.
Sweet are the slumbers of the virtuous.
Everybody's sweetheart is nobody's wife.
It's better to be an old man's sweetheart than a young man's slave.
Nobody's sweetheart is ugly.
Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow.
If you get mixed up in swill, you'll be eaten up by the swine.
Don't try to swim where there is no water.
One swine recognizes another.
A forgotten switch may cause a wreck.
He who lives by the sword shall perish by the sword.
Never stir the fire with a sword.
No sword bites so fiercely as an evil tongue.
One sword keeps another in its scabbard.
The sword outlasts the scabbard.
Whoever has a strong sword has peace.
Sympathy is akin to love.
Sympathy is two hearts tugging at one load.
Sympathy killed a cat.
A little system prevents a lot of bungling.
System spoils success.
At a round table, there is no dispute of place.
At the table it becomes no one to be bashful.
Poor men's tables are soon set.
Rich men's tables have few crumbs.
The table robs more than the thief.
When one has a good table, he is always right.
If I can't be a tablecloth, I won't be a dishrag.
For success in life, tact is more important than talent.
Social tact is making your company feel at home even though you wish they  were.
Some people have tact; others tell the truth.
Tact is removing the sting of a bee without being stung.
Tact is the art of making a point without making an enemy.
Don't get your tail in a twist.
Don't get your tail over the line.
Make not the tail broader than the wings.
Tail goes with the hide.
The tail cannot shake the dog.
A long thread, a lazy tailor.
Nine tailors make a man.
The tailors and barbers go halves with God Almighty.
The tailor's sons wear patched pants.
The tailor's wife is worst clad.
Take all you want, but eat all you take.
Take it or leave it.
Take what you want, says God, but pay for it.
You can't take it with you.
Take-it-easy and live-long are brothers.
Always taking out of the meat tub and never putting in soon comes to the  bottom.
Take while the taking is good.
A good tale ill told is a bad one.
A good tale is not the worse for being told twice.
A tale grows better in the telling.
A tale out of season is as music in mourning.
Don't tell tales out of school.
Every monkey has his tale.
It ought to be a good tale that is twice told.
Lest men suspect your tale untrue, keep probability in view.
One tale is good till another is told.
There are always two tales to a story.
There is many a true tale told in jest.
You can't go so far but what your tales will follow you.
 Put no faith in tale bearers.
Tale bearers are commonly a sort of halfwitted men.
The tale hearer is as bad as the tale bearer.
The words of a tale bearer are as wounds.
 Hide not your talents: they for use are given.
Real talent never makes a fool of itself.
Talent is developed in solitude; character, in the stream of life.
 Big talk will not boil the pot.
Idle talk burns the porridge.
Less talk, more speed.
Long talk, short walk.
Loose talk costs lives.
Much talk, little work.
Short talk in a hoss swap.
Talk brings on talk.
Talk does not cook rice.
Talk is cheap.
Talk is easy, but work is hard.
Ten measures of talk were sent down from heaven, and women took nine.
Where there is so much talk, there is little thought.
 Don't sit around and talk about what you are going to do--do it.
He that talks to himself talks to a fool.
He who talks hears only what he knows; he who listens may learn something.
He who talks much errs much.
He who talks much says many foolish things.
He who talks the most knows the least.
Look out for the man that does not talk and the dog that does not bark.
One who talks the loudest says the least.
People who talk about others are talked about by others.
Sweet-talk to the old lady to get to the daughter.
Talk good, talk on; talk bad, stop.
Talk less; listen more.
Talk softly but carry a big stick.
There isn't much to talk about at some parties until one or two couples leave.
You may talk too much on the best of subjects.
 A great talker may be no fool, but he is one that relies on him.
Big talker, little doer.
Great talkers are like broken pitchers: everything runs out of them.
 Big talking, but little saying.
By talking, people understand one another.
People who wouldn't think of talking with their mouths full often speak with  their heads empty.
Talking pays no toll.
Talking will not make the pot boil.
 The tar of my country is better than the honey of others.
You can't play wid tar an' git none of it on yo' hands.
If men had not slept, the tare had not been sown.
 A task that is pleasant is soon finished.
A task that's worth doing at all is worth doing well.
A task well begun is half done.
Do not pray for tasks equal to your powers; pray for power equal to your tasks.
Never leave a task until it is done.
Some tasks require a strong back and a weak mind.
Everyone to his own taste.
No accounting for taste.
Taste and desire cannot be disputed.
Tastes cannot be controlled.
Tastes differ.
There is no disputing concerning tastes.
 'Tis the taste that tells the tale.
Wish not to taste what does not to you fall.
Little taters is hard to peel.
Tater vine growin' w'ile you sleep.
A tattler is worse than a thief.
The going out of the tavern is the best part of the journey.
Taxation without representation is tyranny.
 He that teaches a scorner does an injury to himself.
He that teaches himself has a fool for a teacher.
What Johnny will not teach himself, Johnny will not learn.
While I teach, I learn.
Who teaches me for a day is my father for a lifetime.
 He is the best teacher who follows his own instructions.
If the learner hasn't learned, the teacher hasn't taught.
 Some teachers are time servers.
 Teaching should be full of ideas, not stuffed with facts.
To know how to suggest is the art of teaching.
A shallow teakettle boils the loudest.
A man is only as good as the worst on his team.
 A woman's tears are her strongest weapons.
 It is the unshed tears that make the scars.
More tears are shed in playhouses than in churches.
Nothing dries sooner than tears.
Only mothers' tears are worth their salt.
Shed tears boldly: weeping is nature's mark to know an honest heart by.
Tears and troubles are the lot of all.
 Tears are often the telescope through which men see far into heaven.
Tears are the natural penalties of pleasure.
Tears are the silent language of grief.
Tears bring nobody back from the grave.
Tears for the bride rain falls on.
Tears hinder sorrow from becoming despair.
Tears of joy are the dew in which the sun of righteousness is mirrored.
The tear of sympathy brings its own relief.
The tears of the congregation are the praises of the minister.
 They that sow in tears shall reap in joy.
Waste not fresh tears over old griefs.
Your tears will be bottled up in heaven.
 Don't tell all you know nor all you can.
Tell not all you know, and tell only what you know right well.
 A lost temper needs no advertising.
A sunny temper gilds the edge of life's blackest clouds.
A tart temper never mellows with age.
Command your temper lest it command you.
If your temper is good, keep it; if it is bad, don't lose it.
Keep your temper: nobody else wants it.
No matter how fashions change, a ruffled temper will never be in style.
 Short tempers often go with long tongues.
Tempers, like faces, generally appear best at a distance.
The loss of temper is the loss of sense.
Your temper is too valuable a possession to lose.
Temperance is the best physic.
 Don't stop to argue with temptation--you will be sorry.
Half the battle of temptation is recognizing it.
Look not on temptation and your mind will be at rest.
Resist temptation till you conquer it.
Temptation is a blessing in disguise.
Temptation is the devil looking through the keyhole, but sin is opening the  door.
Temptation is the fire that brings up the scum of the heart.
 Temptation is the proving ground of man's soul.
Temptations, like misfortunes, are sent to test our moral strength.
The best way to resist temptation is to give in to it.
The less the temptation, the greater the sin.
We can resist everything except temptation.
Who avoids temptation avoids sin.
Evil tendencies are early shown.
No termination without determination.
Terror is a great temptation.
 The greatest test of true bravery is fear to offend.
The test of the pudding is in the eating.
To go downhill is easy; the uphill climb is the test.
Test before trusting.
 God made West Texas when he was a small boy wanting a sandbox.
If I owned Texas and hell, I would rent out Texas and live in hell.
 A text out of context is pretext.
Stick to your text if you die preaching.
 Thanks is poor pay on which to keep a family.
Thanks killed the cat.
The more you do, the less thanks you get.
You can't put thanks into your pocket.
 Thanksgiving is good; thanks-living is better.
While Thanksgiving has its foundation on Plymouth Rock, Christmas rests  upon the Rock of Ages.
Thaw shows up what the snow has hidden.
Too thick won't stick.
 A thief is worse than a liar.
A thief knows a thief as a wolf knows a wolf.
A thief passes for a gentleman when stealing has made him rich.
All are not thieves that dogs bark at.
All thieves come to some bad end.
An old thief makes a good sheriff.
Give a thief enough rope and he'll hang himself.
He is not a thief until he is caught.
It takes a thief to catch a thief.
Men do not despise a thief if he steals to satisfy his soul when it is hungry.
 Once a thief, always a thief.
 Save a thief from the gallows and he'll be the first to cut your throat.
The big thieves hang the little thieves.
The end of the thief is the gallows.
The thief is sorry to be hanged, not to be a thief.
The thief thinks that everyone else is a thief.
There is no thief like a bad book.
Thieves cannot teach honesty.
We hang little thieves and take off our hats to great ones.
When thieves fall out, honest men get their due.
You can catch a thief but never a liar.
 You can jail a thief but never a liar.
You can shut the door on a thief, but you can do nothing about a liar.
You can watch a thief, but you can't watch a liar.
 A little thing in hand is worth more than a great thing in prospect.
A man can do a lot of things if he has to.
A thing done right today means less trouble tomorrow.
All things are possible to him that believes.
All things come to him who waits.
 Certainly there are lots of things in life that money won't buy, but have you  ever tried to buy them without money? Rec.
Do a thing and have done with it.
Do not ignore the things of today.
Don't do the same thing twice.
Each thing has its right place if you know how to place it.
First one thing and then another.
Four things cannot be brought back: a word spoken, an arrow discharged, the  divine decree, and past time.
Getting things done is largely a matter of getting things started.
Great things have a small beginning.
He who would do a great thing well must first have done the simplest thing  perfectly.
If things were to be done twice, all would be wise.
In the end, the things that count are the things that you can't count.
It ain't the things you don't know that makes you ignorant as much as it is the  things you know that ain't so.
It is due each man to find one thing he can do well.
It's the little things in life that count.
Just let things rock along.
Keep a thing seven years and it's bound to come in handy.
Of a little thing, a little displeases.
One thing at a time.
Small things affect light minds.
Take care of the little things and the big things will take care of themselves.
Take things as they are, not as you'd have them be.
The best things come in small packages.
The thing that often occurs is never much appreciated.
The things most people want to know are usually none of their business.
There are more things than are thought of in heaven and earth.
Things always seem fairer when we look back at them.
Things are as they are and not what they ought to be.
Things are in the saddle and ride mankind.
Things are not always what they seem.
Things are tough all over.
Things done cannot be undone.
Things hardly attained are long retained.
Things have their laws as well as men.
Things ill gained are ill lost.
Three things drive a man out of his home: smoke, rain, and a scolding wife.
We may not be able to do great things, but we can do little things in a big way.
We see things not as they are but as we are.
You may hate the things a person does, but never hate the person.
As a man thinks, so he is.
If you don't think well of yourself, no one else will.
One may think what he dare not speak.
Quick to think, slow to speak.
Think all you speak, but speak not all you think.
Think and thank.
Think before you leap.
Think deep and not loud.
Think long, think wrong.
Think more and talk less.
Think much; speak little; write less.
Think--then act.
Think twice; speak once.
Those who dare to think by themselves can make others think with them.
We grow like what we think, so let us think of the good, the true, and the  beautiful.
What others think of us is not as important as what we think of ourselves.
What we think doesn't cause as much trouble as what we say.
Where all think alike, no one thinks very much.
You are what you think, not what you think you are.
You can think what you like, but don't say it.
It is the quick thinkers who become leaders.
The profound thinker always suspects that he is superficial.
There are two classes of thinkers: the shallow ones who fall short of the truth  and the abstruse ones who go beyond it.
Thinkers are as scarce as gold.
It is for want of thinking most men are undone.
Thinking is poor wit.
Thinking is the important thing in life.
Thinking is very far from knowing.
The person you're to be thirty years from now is in your hands now.
Gather thistles, except prickles.
A thorn is small, but he who has felt it doesn't forget it.
Always a thorn among the roses.
He that sows thorns should never go barefoot.
He who sows thorns shall not gather roses.
He who sows thorns will never reap grapes.
It early pricks that will be a thorn.
Under the thorn grow the roses.
You get a thorn with every rose, but aren't the roses sweet? Rec.
A kind thought is never lost.
A man can't be hanged for his thoughts.
A thought once awakened does not slumber.
All thoughts of a turtle are turtle, and of a rabbit, rabbit.
Be careful of your thoughts: they may become words at any time.
Entertain no thoughts which you would blush at in words.
Even as your thought, so let your speech be fair.
First thoughts are best thoughts.
Great thoughts, like great deeds, need no trumpet.
He who quells an angry thought is greater than a king.
My own thoughts are my companions.
One courageous thought will put to flight a host of troubles.
One wrong thought may cause a lifelong regret.
Second thoughts are best.
Sow a thought and reap an act.
Speak your thoughts lest someone steal them.
The fingers of your thought mold your face carelessly.
The thought is father to the deed.
The thoughts of the heart--these are the wealth of a man.
They are never alone who are accompanied by noble thought.
Thought is for the old, and action for the young.
Thought without action will have no result at all.
Thoughts unexpressed may some day fall back dead, but God Himself can't kill  them once they're said.
When alone, we have our own thoughts to watch; when in the family, our  tempers; when in society, our tongues.
Women's thoughts are always afterthoughts.
You can't keep thoughts from entering your head, but you can keep from  hoarding them there.
Your thoughts go no further than your vocabulary.
It is better to be thoughtful than thoughtless.
It's the first thousand that comes hardest.
A long thread, a lazy tailor.
A thread is always on the tailor.
A thread too finespun will easily break.
Leave a loose thread.
The thread follows the needle.
The thread is cut where the thread is thinnest.
There's many a thread 'twixt sheep and shirt.
He threatens who is afraid.
Threatened folks live the longest: they take numerous precautions.
Most people consider thrift a fine virtue in ancestors.
Practice thrift or else you'll drift.
Thrift is to a man what chastity is to a woman.
A thrifty father rarely has a thrifty son.
Better late thrive than never do well.
He that would thrive must rise at five; he that has thrived may rise at seven.
Don't throw away what others may use.
A winter's thunder is a summer's hunger.
It's the thunder that frights but the lightning that smites.
Thunder in February means frost in April.
Thunder in the fall, no winter at all.
Thunder without rain is like words without deeds.
When the thunder is very loud, there's very little rain.
If it thunders before seven, it will rain before eleven.
It never thunders but it rains.
If you don't have a ticket, you don't ride.
No tickee, no washee.
Every tide has its ebb.
Every tide must turn.
It is only at low tide we find things worth picking up.
There is a tide in the affairs of men which, taken at the flood, leads on to  fortune.
Wait for the rising tide.
Wait for the turn of the tide.
Do not be in a hurry to tie what you cannot untie.
Clipping a tiger's claws never makes him lose his taste for blood.
He who rides the tiger can never dismount.
Tigers and deer do not stroll together.
When the tiger is dead, the stag dances on his grave.
When the tiger salaams, the end of the world arrives.
While keeping a tiger from the front door, the wolf enters from the back.
Mind your till, and till your mind.
Dey's jes' ez good a timber in de woods ez w'at been bought.
A moment of time is a moment of mercy.
A short time is long for the unprepared.
All that time is lost which might be better employed.
Always is a long time.
An inch of time is an inch of gold.
Appoint a time for everything, and do everything in its time.
As good have no time as make no good use of it.
Begin in time to finish without hurry.
Better on time than late.
Don't fiddle your time away.
Don't spend your time in vain regrets.
Don't wait till you get time--take time.
Don't waste five-dollar time on a fivecent job.
Employ the time well if you mean to gain leisure.
Everything has its time.
He that gains time gains all things.
He who has time does not wait for time.
He who knows most grieves most for wasted time.
If you want to pass time quickly, just give your note for ninety days.
Improve time and time will improve you.
In time, on time, everytime, and all the time, excepting when ahead of time, and  that's a little better time.
It's time enough to bid the devil good morning when you meet him.
Kill time and time will kill you.
Killing time is not murder, it's suicide.
Let time that makes you homely make you sage.
Little by little time goes by, short if you sing, long if you sigh.
Lost time is never found.
Never waste time.
Noiseless falls the foot of time.
Nothing is more injurious than unoccupied time.
Nothing is more precious than time, yet nothing is less valued.
Out of time, out of mind.
Start in time to be in time.
Strike when the time is right.
Take time by the forelock.
Take time when time is, for time will away.
The best way to kill time is to work it to death.
The hands of time will never turn back.
The only value of time is its use.
The sands of time never run smooth.
The stairway of time ever echoes with the wooden shoe going up, the polished  shoe coming down.
The third time is a charm.
There is a time and place for everything.
There is a time to fish and a time to dry nets.
There must be a first time for everything.
There's a time for business.
There's always time to do what you want to do.
There's no time like the present.
They who make the best use of their time have none to spare.
Time and patience change the mulberry leaf to satin.
Time and tide wait for no man.
Time and trouble circle the world.
Time and words can never be recalled.
Time brings everything to light.
Time brings everything to those who can wait for it.
Time changes ever, but the heart of man never.
Time changes everything.
Time changes the oak into a coffin.
Time consumes the strongest.
Time devours all things.
Time ends all things.
Time erases all sorrows.
Time flies.
Time flies like an arrow, and time lost never returns.
Time goes slow for those who watch it.
Time hangs heavy on idle hands.
Time has a wallet.
Time heals all wounds.
Time is a cunning workman.
Time is a file that wears and makes no noise.
Time is a hard taskmaster.
Time is an herb that cures all diseases.
Time is a ship that never anchors.
Time is a true friend to sorrow.
Time is capital: invest it wisely.
Time is like money: once spent, it can never be spent again.
Time is money.
Time is not the click of the clock, it is the everlasting now.
Time is shorter than you think.
Time is the best doctor.
Time is the best teacher.
Time is of the essence.
Time is the rider that breaks youth.
Time is the sire of fame.
Time is, time was, and time is past.
Time leaps; wisdom crowds.
Time makes turncoats of us all.
Time marches on.
Time never stands still.
Time passes quickly; make good use of it.
Time ripens all things.
Time saved at a cost of an accident is no saving.
Time serves no man.
Time was made for slaves.
Time wasted getting even could be saved by getting ahead.
Time wasted is time lost.
Time will pass.
Time will tell.
Time works for those who work.
Time works wonders.
Use time as though you knew its value.
We mustn't waste time, for that's the stuff life's made of.
Well-arranged time is the surest mark of a well-arranged mind.
What we call time enough always proves little enough.
Wise use of time will make for wiser living.
You can't throw down time and pick it up again.
You sit your time like many a good goose.
Keep ahead of the times.
Other times, other customs.
These are the times that try men's souls.
Times are tough when the skies aren't smoky.
Times change, and people change their ideas.
Times change, and we change with them.
The timid are never free.
When you spit in a timid man's eye, he says it is raining.
He who does not tire, tires adversity.
Tithing is simply payment of an honest debt.
He has a better title who was first in point of time.
A toad in a puddle is better than a puddle in a toad.
Better be a big toad in a small puddle than a small toad in a big puddle.
You can't tell how far a toad will jump by the length of its tail.
 Don't chew your tobacco twice.
It's allers best for a man to chaw his own tobakker.
Do today's right; don't fuss about tomorrow's.
Don't do anything today that you may be sorry for tomorrow.
Here today, gone tomorrow.
Live today, for tomorrow may not come.
Never do today what you can put off until tomorrow.
One today is worth two tomorrows.
Plan today for tomorrow.
Take care of today and tomorrow will take care of itself.
Today is not the same as tomorrow.
Today is the tomorrow that you worried about yesterday.
Today is yesterday's pupil.
Today is yesterday's tomorrow.
Today must borrow nothing of tomorrow.
Today will never come again.
What a wonderful world this would be if we all did as well today as we expect  to do tomorrow.
What's done today you don't need to do tomorrow.
Don't tread on other people's toes.
Never tread on a sore toe.
One who keeps on his toes is never down at the heels.
Toes that are tender will be stepped on.
Blessed are the horned hands of toil.
The blessing of the earth is toil.
Toilers are crowned with success.
It is only one step from tolerance to forgiveness.
Tolerance is a two-way street.
Tolerance is the last study in the school of wisdom.
Boast not of tomorrow, for you know not what a day may bring forth.
Defer not till tomorrow to be wise: tomorrow's sun to you may never rise.
Don't be afraid of tomorrow; look what could happen today.
Don't spend too much on tomorrow--it isn't yours yet.
Don't wish for tomorrow--you're wishing your life away.
Let tomorrow take care of itself.
Never put off until tomorrow what you can do today.
Never spend tomorrow counting yesterday's empty bottles.
There is always a tomorrow.
Tomorrow is a new day.
Tomorrow is untouched.
Tomorrow may be the carriage driver's day for plowing.
Tomorrow never comes.
We never see tomorrow till it becomes today.
Don't keep all your tongs in one fire.
A fool's tongue is long enough to cut his throat.
A long tongue has a short hand.
A still tongue makes a wise head.
A still tongue tells no tales.
A wholesome tongue is a tree of life.
A woman's tongue is one that will never wear out.
Be not your tongue your own shame's orator.
Confine your tongue, lest it confine you.
Don't let your tongue run away with your brains.
Don't throw your tongue into high gear till you get your brain in motion.
Guard your tongue; slander sometimes comes home to roost.
He who cannot hold his tongue is unworthy of having one.
He who has not a good tongue needs to have good hands.
He who holds his tongue is strong.
He who uses his tongue will reach his destination.
Hold your tongue.
In company, guard your tongue; in solitude, your heart.
Keep a good tongue in your head.
Keep your tongue from evil and your lips from speaking guile.
Keep your tongue within your teeth.
Let not your tongue cut your throat.
Make use of your tongue, and you will find out.
Man's tongue is soft and bone does lack, yet a stroke therewith may break a  man's back.
No one ever repented holding his tongue.
One tongue is enough for two women.
One tongue is sufficient for a woman.
Remember, your tongue is in a wet place: it's likely to slip.
Talk of the rack, what is it to a woman's tongue? Rec.
The boneless tongue, so small and weak, can crush and kill.
The devil's tongue is sharpest on the backlash.
The tongue can speak a word whose speed outsteps the steed.
The tongue destroys a greater horde than does the sword.
The tongue is a little thing, but it fills the universe with trouble.
The tongue is an unruly member.
The tongue is not steel, but it cuts.
The tongue is sharper than the sword.
The tongue is the only tool that grows sharper with use.
The tongue of the just is a choice silver; the heart of the wicked is little worth.
The tongue offends, and the ears get the cuffing.
The tongue returns to the aching tooth.
The tongue speaks wisely when the soul is wise.
The tongue wounds more than the arrow.
The tongue's great storehouse is the heart.
Tongue double brings trouble.
Turn your tongue seven times before speaking.
Wagging tongue indicates brains that don't think.
Who keeps his tongue will keep his soul.
Your tongue can undo all you be.
Your tongue is your ambassador.
A tool is but the extension of a man's hand.
Handle your tools without mittens: the cat in gloves catches no mice.
Of what good are tools if allowed to rust? Rec.
People who have tools are able to make a great many things.
They who play with edged tools must expect to be cut.
Time spent in sharpening one's tools is not wasted.
When the tool is dull, put forth more strength.
A tooth in the mouth is worth two in the plate.
Aching teeth are ill tenants.
All teeth showing is not laughter.
Be true to your teeth or they'll be false to you.
Better a tooth out than always aching.
It is very well that the teeth are before the tongue.
Never show your teeth unless you can bite.
You can look at teeth and not be bitten.
You can't tell which tooth bit you if you back into a buzzard.
Don't blow your top.
A tornado never hits the junction of two rivers.
Torpor and sloth, torpor and sloth, these are the cooks that unseason the broth.
Tote while totin's good.
 The highest towers begin from the ground.
Towers are measured by their shadows and great men by their slanderers.
Don't get off the beaten track.
Even if you are on the right track, you won't get over if you sit there.
The other track on the road is always the smoothest.
He who likes to track likes to cheat.
A tractor doesn't eat its head off in the barn when it isn't working.
A man of many trades begs his bread on Sunday.
Every man to his trade.
He that has a trade has an estate, and he that has a calling has an office of profit  and honor.
If you deny the trade, you should give up the tools.
In trade, competition prevents imposition.
Learn a trade and earn a living.
Two of a trade seldom agree.
It's a long trail that has no turning.
A train gets to its destination on time by staying on the track.
Every train has a caboose.
Little trains go far.
Training is everything.
The way of the transgressor is hard.
Translation is at best an echo.
The fox condemns the trap, not himself.
Watch out for the trap if it hasn't been sprung.
All trash goes before the broom.
Don't blow trash in my backyard.
Fool with trash, it will blow in your eyes.
Trash always comes to the top.
Travel broadens the mind.
Travel is the best school.
He that travels far knows much.
He travels fastest who travels alone.
He who wants to travel far saves his horse.
Little by little, one travels far.
Tell me with whom you travel and I'll tell you who you are.
Travel in the light; rest in the night.
 A traveler never gets lost on a straight road.
An American traveler abroad always comes home an ardent patriot.
Lovers, travelers, and poets will give money to be heard.
We are all graveyard travelers, and when you worry, you're just whipping up  your horse.
Traveling is one way of lengthening life, at least in appearance.
Men are oftener treacherous through weakness than design.
Treachery, cautious at the start, betrays itself in the end.
He who treads softly goes far.
Treason is never successful, for when it is successful, men do not call it treason.
Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth.
Measure your treasure by the pleasure it brings.
Treasures of wickedness profit nothing.
Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
A crooked tree throws only a crooked shadow.
A crooked tree will never straighten its branches.
A family tree is valuable when it produces good timber and not just a bunch of  nuts.
A fig tree looking on a fig tree becomes fruitful.
A great tree has a great fall.
A rotten tree bears no fruit.
A tall tree makes a squirrel saucy.
A tree is as strong as its roots.
A tree is known by its fruit.
A tree often transplanted neither grows nor thrives.
A tree with beautiful blossoms does not always yield the best fruit.
A young tree is easier twisted than an old tree.
An old tree is hard to straighten.
An older tree knows more than a growing one.
As a tree falls, so shall it lie.
As the tree is bent, so the tree is inclined.
Bend the tree while it is young.
Big trees grow from little acorns.
Go to a pear tree for pears, not to an elm.
Good trees grow straight.
Great trees keep down little ones.
He that climbs the tall tree has a right to the fruit.
He that plants trees loves others besides himself.
He who loves the tree loves the branch.
It is the good apple tree that has the most clubs under it.
It takes all kinds of trees to make a forest.
Large trees give more shade than fruit.
Move an old tree and it will wither and die.
Never bark up the wrong tree.
Never climb a crooked tree.
One never knows how the tree is bent until it has lost its leaves.
One tree can make a million matches, and one match can destroy a million  trees.
Our crosses are hewn from different trees, but we all must have our calvaries.
Plant the crab tree where you will, it never will bear pippins.
Tall trees catch much wind.
The bigger the tree, the harder she falls.
The taller the tree, the harder the bark; the taller the girl, the harder the spark.
The tree that grows the straightest lives the longest.
When the tree is fallen, everyone goes to it with his hatchet.
Nothing beats a trial but a failure.
Old trials are better borne than new ones.
Second trials often succeed.
Trials break little men but make great ones.
Tribulation works patience.
There are tricks in all trades.
It's a trifle that makes fools laugh.
Trifles lead to serious matters.
Trifles make perfection, but perfection is no trifle.
He who trims himself to suit everyone soon whittles himself away.
A thousand-mile trip begins with one step.
Don't sing your triumph before you have conquered.
Trivials make perfection, but perfection isn't trivial.
Do not ever meet trouble halfway.
Don't borrow trouble.
Don't tell your troubles to others--most of 'em don't care.
Everybody has his troubles.
He that seeks trouble never misses.
If all the troubles were hung on bushes, we would take our own and run.
If you don't go looking for trouble, trouble won't go looking for you.
It seems sometimes that the biggest things in the world are our troubles, the  smallest things blessings.
It takes only a little trouble to get in a lot of it.
It's easier to stay out of trouble than to get out of trouble.
Keep your eye peeled for trouble.
Laugh your troubles away.
Man is born unto trouble.
Most trouble starts from misunderstandings.
 Never trouble trouble till trouble troubles you.
Of all your troubles great and small, the greatest are those that don't happen at  all.
One hasn't anything without trouble.
Pack up your troubles.
Taking trouble is the best way to avoid trouble.
Tell your troubles to the policeman.
The best way to get out of trouble is not to get in it.
The greater your troubles, the greater is your opportunity to show yourself a  man.
The size of your troubles generally depends on whether they are coming or  going.
They who borrow trouble must pay a high rate of interest.
Those who make trouble for others often fall into it themselves.
Trouble: two women under one roof.
Trouble arises when you least expect it.
Trouble is merely opportunity in work clothes.
Trouble loves company.
Trouble never comes single-handed.
Trouble shared is trouble halved.
Trouble springs from idleness.
Trouble starts when you start feeling sorry for yourself.
We milk trouble drier than we do enjoyment.
When we can't make light of our troubles, we can keep them dark.
W'en trouble cum, frien' run.
You can't escape trouble by running away from it.
You can't keep trouble from coming in, but you needn't give it a chair to sit in.
Never trouble another for what you can do yourself.
Dirty troughs will serve dirty sows.
Never wear your best trousers when you go out to fight for freedom.
Trousers help trousers; skirts help skirts.
A live trout is better than a dead whale.
You can't catch trout with dry trousers.
Dare to be true: nothing can need a lie.
That must be true which all men say.
This above all: to your own self be true.
When in doubt, lead trumps.
It is not the trumpeters that fight the battles.
Betray no trust; divulge no secret.
Sudden trust brings sudden repentance.
Do not trust too much in an enchanting face.
In matters concerning yourself, trust first your head; in matters concerning  others, trust first your heart.
Never trust a man who doesn't trust others.
Never trust a man who speaks well of everybody.
Those who trust us educate us.
To trust oneself is good--not to trust oneself is better.
Trust every man, but always cut the cards.
Trust not him that has once broken faith.
Trust not, tempt not.
Trust yourself only and another shall not betray you.
You should never trust a man, but if you do, never trust the same one twice.
To be trusted is a greater compliment than to be loved.
There is no trusting to the countenance.
A truth that's told with bad intent beats all the lies you can invent.
All fails where truth fails.
Always tell the truth, but don't always be telling the truth.
Always tell your doctor and your lawyer the truth.
Better suffer for truth than prosper by falsehood.
Buy the truth, but never sell it.
Doubt him who serves the truth of a thing.
Folks like the truth that hits their neighbors.
Follow not truth too near the heels lest it dash out your teeth.
Half the truth is often a great lie.
He who follows truth too closely will have dirt kicked in his face.
If we tell untruths, no one will believe us even when we do speak the truth.
If you want the truth, ask a child.
If you want to hear the whole truth about yourself, anger your neighbor.
It is not truth that makes man great, but man that makes truth great.
It is truth that makes a man angry.
It takes two to speak truth: one to speak and another to hear.
Live truth instead of professing it.
Love truth for truth's sake.
Many a truth is spoken in jest.
Men who tell you almost nothing but the truth tell you almost nothing.
Speak every man truth with his neighbor.
Speak the truth and shame the devil.
Speak the truth bravely, cost as it may; hiding the wrong act is not the way.
Tell the truth all the time and you won't have to remember what you said.
Tell the truth if it kills you.
The expression of truth is simplicity.
The greater the truths, the greater the libel.
The greatest truths are the simplest, and so are the greatest men.
The man who fears no truths has nothing to fear from lies.
The truth always pays.
The truth doesn't hurt unless it ought to.
The truth hurts.
The truth is better than a lie.
The truth itself is not believed from those who often have deceived.
The truth never shocked a man.
The truth of the soul is in the spirit.
The truth shall make you free.
The truth will out.
There is no standard for truth: we cannot even agree on the meaning of words.
To define a truth is to limit its scope.
To withhold the truth is to bury gold.
Truth always brings division between right and wrong.
Truth and oil always come to the top.
Truth and roses have thorns about them.
Truth creeps out of the ground.
Truth, crushed to earth, will rise again.
Truth fears no colors.
Truth fears nothing but concealment.
Truth finds foes where it makes none.
Truth gives a short answer, but lies go round about.
Truth has no confines.
Truth, harsh though it be, is a faithful friend.
Truth is a rare commodity.
Truth is a useful idea.
Truth is found in strange places and often slumbers even in a joke.
Truth is heavy; therefore few wear it.
Truth is mightier than the sword.
Truth is mighty and will prevail.
Truth is simple, requiring neither study nor art.
Truth is stranger than fiction.
Truth is the basis of all excellence.
Truth is the daughter of time.
Truth is the gate of justice.
Truth is the spring of heroic virtue.
Truth is too heavy for most people to bear.
Truth is truth, though spoken by an enemy.
Truth is truth to the end of reckoning.
Truth keeps to the bottom of her well.
Truth may be blamed, but never shamed.
Truth may sometimes come out of the devil's mouth.
Truth never grows old.
Truth never hurt the teller.
Truth never perishes.
Truth seeks no corners.
Truth shall conquer all.
Truth tastes bitter.
When in doubt, tell the truth.
Where doubt is, truth is.
Without truth there can be no virtue.
A try is better than nothing.
He who never tries anything will never win.
I'll try it is a soldier; I will is a king.
It is better to have tried and died than never to have lived.
Try anything once.
Try before you trust.
Try did wonders.
Try it before you buy it.
You can never tell till you've tried.
No one was ever blamed for trying.
Every tub smells of the wine it holds.
Let every tub stand on its own bottom.
You don't have to eat a whole tub of butter to get the taste.
The hardest tumble a man can take is the fall off his own bluff.
He who tumbles isn't much of a traveler.
Keep yourself from the tumult of the mob.
Any tune is music when you feels like dancin'.
Old tunes are sweetest; old friends are surest.
There is many a good tune played on the old fiddle.
Who dances to the tune must pay the piper.
A good turn goes a long way.
Do a good turn daily.
Never do anyone an ill turn.
One bad turn deserves another.
One good turn deserves another.
One never loses by doing a good turn.
Your turn today, mine tomorrow.
It is better to turn back than to turn astray.
Turnabout is fair play.
A young twig is easier twisted than an old tree.
As the twig is bent, so grows the tree.
Bend the twig while it is still green.
Best to bend it while a twig.
Birchen twigs break no ribs.
Easy matter to bend a twig; hard matter to bend an oak.
The young twig is easily bent.
Two can live cheaper than one.
Two in distress make trouble less.
Two is company; three is a crowd.
The first essential of a typist is a good eraser.
Tyranny breeds deceit.
A tyrant never knows true friendship nor perfect liberty.
A tyrant never wants a plea.
A tyrant's breath is another's death.
There is no tyrant like an ex-slave.
Ugliness is the guardian of women.
An ugly baby makes a beautiful adult.
An ugly man never gets a pretty wife.
An ugly woman dreads the mirror.
If all the world were ugly, deformity would be no monster.
If you despise that which is ugly, you do not know that which is beautiful.
No woman is ugly if she is well dressed.
The ugliest woman can look in the mirror and think she is beautiful.
Ugly is to the bone; beauty lasts only a day.
An ulcer and a bird do not choose where to appear.
Umbrage should never be taken where offense is not intended.
If you leave your umbrella at home, it is sure to rain.
The umbrella goes up when the rain comes down.
Two under an umbrella makes the third a wet fellow.
Unanimity makes humble help strong.
A boy is better unborn than untaught.
The unchaste woman can never become chaste again.
The unchaste woman will hesitate at no wickedness.
A man doesn't learn to understand anything unless he loves it.
A person should not meddle with what he does not understand.
He that understands amiss, concludes worse.
He who understands most is the other men's master.
To one who understands, few words are needed.
To really understand a man we must judge him in misfortune.
To understand is to forgive.
Whatever you cannot understand you cannot possess.
You can't make other people understand what you are trying to explain if you  don't understand it yourself.
Be not disturbed at being misunderstood; be disturbed at not understanding.
The understanding is always the dupe of the heart.
Understanding is the faculty of reflection.
Undertake no more than you can perform.
Who undertakes too much seldom succeeds.
Every undertaking is only begun with difficulty.
In your every undertaking, consider some day you will have to die.
There is no unequal before natural law.
It's always the unexpected that happens.
Deride not the unfortunate.
However unfortunate we are, there are always people worse off than we.
None know the unfortunate, and the fortunate do not know themselves.
To do good to the ungrateful is like throwing water into the sea.
Unholiness is the deformity of the mind.
The uninvited should bring their own stool.
In union there is strength.
United we stand; divided we fall.
There's unity in diversity.
Unity is the essence of amity.
God dictated the universe but never signed it.
The true university is a collection of books.
Envy not the unjust man, and do not follow his way.
Unkindness has no remedy at law.
Everything that is unknown is taken to be grand.
To be unknown is better than to be ill known.
Unknown, unkissed.
Unknown, unmissed.
Unminded, unmoaned.
Unrighteousness has its punishment here as well as hereafter.
Unseen, unrued.
Better untaught than ill taught.
Nothing can overtake an untruth if it has a minute's start.
Everything that goes up must come down.
Things have to go up--they can't go any further down.
How could we measure the ups in life if it weren't for the downs? Rec.
We all have our ups and downs.
Uprightness ever gathers the fruits of its own rearing.
Make use of your friends by being of use to them.
Use it but don't abuse it.
Use it up; make it do; wear it out.
Use what you would not lose.
What you don't use today, save for tomorrow.
Be useful as well as ornamental.
Be useful where you live.
Combine the useful with the pleasant.
The useful and the beautiful are never separated.
Usefulness and baseness cannot exist in the same thing.
Usury is the daughter of avarice.
Practical utility is the mother of justice and equity.
Utility is preferable to grandeur.
Tune your own utterance to your own ear.
A vacuum is always filled.
The vagabond, when rich, is called a tourist.
A vagrant is everywhere at home.
The true vagrant is the only king above all comparison.
If we are vain and love to be flattered, we shall become foolish.
 Vain is the help of man.
Always a valley before a h Ill.
He that stays in the valley shall never get over the h Ill.
They who are content to remain in the valley will get no news from the  mountains.
Valor can do but little without discretion.
Every man stamps his value upon himself.
If you'd know the value of money, go and borrow some.
Like a postage stamp, a man's value depends upon his ability to stick to a thing  till he gets there.
 Set not too high a value on your own abilities.
Do not let your vanity make you overestimate your powers.
Every man has as much vanity as he is deficient in understanding.
Vanity backbites more than malice.
Vanity dies hard.
Vanity is the sixth sense.
Vanity of vanities, all is vanity.
Virtue would not go far if a little vanity walked not with it.
Vanquishers are kings, the vanquished thieves.
Variety is the spice of life.
Vegetables from your neighbor's garden are always the best.
A woman's vengeance has no bounds.
Cover the desire for vengeance with an appearance of calm.
Boldly ventured is half won.
He that does not venture must not complain of bad luck.
He that ventures too far loses all.
Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
One wise man's verdict outweighs all the fools'.
When a man tries himself, the verdict is in his favor.
Vermont has two seasons--winter and the Fourth of July.
A bad vessel is seldom broken.
A cracked vessel is known by its sound, a cracked mind by the tongue's speech.
Do not look upon the vessel but upon that which it contains.
Empty vessels are easily carried.
The emptiest vessel makes the most noise.
The vessel only holds its fill.
Too much in the vessel bursts the lid.
Do not ship all in one vessel.
The vessel that will not obey her helm will have to obey the rocks.
Vessels large may venture more, but little boats should keep to shore.
He who eats the fastest often feeds his vest.
It is by the vicar's skirts that the devil climbs into the belfry.
A vice lives and thrives by concealment.
Be at war with your vices, at peace with your neighbors, and let every new year  find you a better man.
Every vice fights against nature.
He who plunges into vice resembles a man who rolls from the tip of a precipice.
I'd rather have a comfortable vice than a virtue that bores.
No vice is complete by itself.
Vice knows she's ugly, so puts on her mask.
Vice makes virtue look well to its anchors.
Vice makes virtue shine.
Vice must never plead prescript.
Vice should not correct sin.
Vices are learned without a teacher.
Vices often become virtues; hatred is respectable in wartime.
What maintains one vice would bring up two children.
When our vices leave us, we flatter ourselves that we leave them.
One trouble with the world is that there are always more victors than spoils.
To the victor belong the spoils.
A man learns little from victory but much from defeat.
All victory ends in the defeat of death.
In victory the hero seeks the glory, not the prey.
It is more difficult to look upon victory than upon battle.
Love victory but despise the pride of triumph.
Pursue not a victory too far: you may provoke the foe to desperate resistance.
The real and lasting victories are those of peace and not of war.
There is never a victory without a battle.
Victory belongs to the most persevering.
The higher we rise, the broader the view.
Eternal vigilance is the price of celibacy.
Eternal vigilance is the price of good navigation.
Eternal vigilance is the price of supremacy.
Be ever vigilant, but never suspicious.
Don't live in a village whose mayor is a doctor.
That village is in a bad fix whose physician has the gout.
A man may smile and smile and still be a villain.
A villain may disguise himself, but he will not deceive the wise.
Villains may prosper for a time, but their end is ignominy.
Big vines, small potatoes.
When the vine is ripe, the fruit will fall.
Beware of vinegar made of sweet wine.
Vinegar catches no flies.
Nothing good comes of violence.
Violence breeds hatred, and hatred dissension.
Violence does even justice unjustly.
A fair woman without virtue is like stale wine.
Assume a virtue if you have it not.
Great virtues do not excuse small vices.
If you have virtue, acquire also the graces and beauties of virtue.
It is in virtue that happiness consists, for virtue is the state of mind which tends  to make the whole life harmonious.
It is well to remember people's virtues and not their deficiencies.
Make not the rewards of virtue the gifts of favor.
Make a virtue of necessity.
Men do not vary much in virtue; their vices only are different.
Much virtue in herbs, little in men.
People shouldn't be too good and exaggerate their own virtues.
Search others for their virtues, yourself for your vices.
Seek virtue, and of that possessed, to providence resign the rest.
Sell not virtue to purchase wealth nor liberty to purchase power.
There is no virtue in giving to others what is useless to oneself.
To be proud of virtue is to poison yourself with the antidote.
Unless virtue guide us, our choice must be wrong.
Virtue and honesty are cheap at any price.
Virtue and riches seldom settle on one man.
Virtue and vice cannot dwell under the same roof.
Virtue debases itself by justifying itself.
Virtue dies at twelve o'clock at night.
Virtue flourishes in misfortune.
Virtue is a mean between two vices.
Virtue is a thousand shields.
Virtue is everlasting wealth.
Virtue is found in the mean.
Virtue is its own reward.
Virtue is like a rich stone, best plain set.
Virtue is never aided by a vice.
Virtue is the best title of nobility.
Virtue is the only true nobility.
Virtue is the safest helmet.
Virtue never grows old.
Virtue rejoices in trial.
Virtue survives the grave.
Virtue which parleys is near a surrender.
Virtue will triumph.
Virtues all agree, but vices fight one another.
Without virtue, happiness cannot be.
A virtuous woman commands her husband by obeying him.
A virtuous woman is rarer than a precious jewel.
Virtuous men are kings' treasures.
We call loudly for a man of vision, and when we get one we call him a  visionary.
Where there is no vision, the people perish.
A short visit is best.
Make your visits short and you are always welcome.
Short visits make long friends.
Visits should be short, like a winter's day.
The best way to visit the poor is to help the poor.
If you would lose a troublesome visitor, lend him money.
Visitors, if they did not visit, would do nothing.
The vivacity that increases with years is not far from folly.
Vivacity in youth is often mistaken for genius, and solidity for dullness.
Vivacity is the gift of woman.
Vivacity is the health of the spirit.
Vocabulary is the tool of wise men.
The vocation of every man and woman is to serve people.
Don't be vogue on the outside and vague on the inside.
 A fool's voice is known by a multitude of words.
A sweet voice is often a devil's arrow that reaches the heart.
A voice gentle and low is an excellent thing in woman.
Listen to the still, small voice within.
The voice is the guardian of the mind.
The voice is the music of the heart.
The voice of a pig can't be disguised.
The voice of the people is the voice of God.
The voice of the pigeon on the spit is not like the voice of the pigeon in the tree.
The voice of truth is easily known.
The voice with a smile always wins.
Where there is a voice, there is a relative.
Every man is a volume if you know how to read him.
The volume of nature is the book of knowledge.
A volunteer is worth ten pressed men.
Voluptuousness blindfolds the eyes of the mind.
Voluptuousness, like Justice, is blind, but that is the only resemblance between  them.
A straw vote only shows which way the hot air blows.
A vow made in the storm is forgotten in the calm.
Morning vows are often lost in the midnight shades.
In the voyage of life, may content be our fellow passenger.
When the voyage is over, the saint is forgot.
To endeavor to work upon the vulgar with fine sense is like attempting to hew  blocks with a razor.
Vulgar minds growl beneath their load; the brave bear theirs without repining.
Do not wade in unknown waters.
The wages of sin is death.
A wager is a fool's argument.
 Get off the wagon or quit dragging both feet.
Hitch your wagon to a star.
The empty wagon makes the most noise.
The wagon of God drives slowly and well.
 Everything comes to him who waits.
Wait and you will be rewarded.
He that walks uprightly walks surely, but he that perverts his ways shall be  known.
The man who walks takes title to the world around him.
Those who walk down alone walk the least.
To walk one must use his feet.
Walk too fast and stumble over nothing.
You can tell a lot about a person by the way he walks.
You have to learn to walk before you can run.
A wall between preserves love.
A white wall is the fool's writing paper: he writes his name there.
Everyone gives a push to a tumbling wall.
He who climbs to the top of a wall should not kick over his ladder, as he might  wish sometime to climb down again.
Stone walls do not a prison make, nor iron bars a cage.
The great wall stands; the builder is gone.
The wall has ears and the plain has eyes.
Walls of sand are sure to crumble.
Don't fling away de empty wallet.
Halving your wants quadruples your wealth.
Hundreds would never have known want if they had not at first known waste.
Many wants attend those who have many ambitions.
The want of a thing is more than the worth of it.
Want is the mother of industry.
Want makes strife between man and wife.
Want of rest is worse than want of wealth.
Want will be your master.
We lessen our wants by lessening our desires.
He that wants should not be bashful.
It ain't what you wants in dis world, it's what you gits.
It's not what you want that makes you fat, but what you get.
Man wants but little here below, nor wants that long.
Since we cannot get what we want, let us like what we can get.
"Take what you want," says God, "but pay for it.
Want a thing long enough and you won't.
A great war leaves the country with three armies: an army of cripples, an army  of mourners, and an army of thieves.
Be at war with your vices, at peace with your neighbors, and let every new year  find you a better man.
Don't win the war before it's won.
He who preaches up war is a fit chaplain of the devil.
Hotter war, sooner peace.
In wars, laws have no authority.
That war is just which is necessary.
The fear of war is worse than war itself.
The feast of vultures and a waste of life is war.
The object of war is peace.
The sooner the war, the quicker peace.
There never was a good war or a bad peace.
War begets no good offspring.
War is a business that ruins those who succeed in it.
War is death's feast.
War is hell.
War is sweet to them that know it not.
War is the law of violence, peace the law of love.
War is the sink of all injustice.
War seldom enters but where wealth allures.
Wars bring scars.
Forbidden wares sell twice as dear.
Pleasing ware is half sold.
An old war-horse delights in battle.
He that is warm thinks all are so.
Warm and wet for oats and corn, cool and dry for wheat and rye.
You can't get warm on another's fur coat.
The warnings of age are the weapons of youth.
Great warriors, like earthquakes, are remembered for the injury they have  accomplished.
The warrior lives an honorable life even in poverty.
It will all come out in the wash.
What won't come out in the wash will come out in the rinse.
It's a lonesome washing that has not a man's shirt in it.
The woman who likes washing can always find water.
More wasps are caught by honey than by vinegar.
Willful waste makes woeful want.
 Those who waste will want.
Waste and want; save and have.
Waste not, want not.
A careless watch invites the vigilant foe.
There are only two people who fix watches: a fool and a watchmaker.
A good person doesn't need watching and a bad one isn't worth watching.
All water that goes up has to come down.
As water runs towards the shore, so does money toward the rich.
Don't get into deep water until you learn how to swim.
Don't throw away your dirty water until you get clean.
Don't throw water on a drowned rat.
Don't try running water up a hill.
Every man drags water to his own mill.
Much water goes by the mill the miller knows not of.
Pure water is better than bad wine.
Running water washes clean.
Spilled water cannot be gathered up.
Still water runs deep.
Stolen waters are sweet.
Stump water won't cure de gripes.
The water isn't boiled until the kettle sings.
Those who drink but water will have no liquor to buy.
Water always flows down, not up.
Water cannot be divided by a stroke.
Water gone over a dam never returns.
Water is the only drink for a wise man.
Water seeks its own level.
Water that has passed cannot make the mill go.
Water will be water the world over.
Water will rust the stomach.
When the water's high, the boat's high.
When you get into deep water, keep your mouth shut.
You go where you can get ice water.
You never miss the water till the well runs dry.
Jump when the wave is on the swell.
Anyone can have his own way if there's not someone in it.
Better one safe way than a hundred on which you cannot reckon.
Every man in his own way.
Everyone enjoys himself in his own way.
He is in the way of life that keeps instruction, but he that refuses errs.
He knows the way best who went there last.
He that goes a great way for a wife is either cheated or means to cheat.
He who learns the hard way will never forget.
If your ways are bad, everybody will dislike you.
It is the ordinary way of the world to keep folly at the helm and wisdom under  the hatches.
It's all in the way you look at it.
It's not so much where you are as which way you are going.
Never too late to mend your ways.
None goes his way alone.
That's the way with a woman.
The best way out is always through.
The longest way around is the shortest way home.
The middle way is the best.
The safe way is the right way.
The way of a fool is right in his own eyes.
The way to hell is paved with good intentions.
There are more ways to the wood than one.
There is more than one way to skin a cat.
There is no easy way.
There is your way, my way, and the right way.
 Whatever way the wind does blow, some hearts are glad to have it so.
Willful ways make woeful want.
Even the weakest may find means to avenge a wrong.
The weak may be joked out of everything but their weakness.
The weakest goes to the wall.
You cannot strengthen the weak by weakening the strong.
Don't hit someone who looks weak.
Everyone has his weak side.
They are the weakest, however strong, who have no confidence in their own  ability.
Weak men had best be witty.
Weak men wait for opportunities; strong men make them.
Where it is weakest, there the thread breaks.
One man's weakness is another man's chance.
A man of wealth is a slave to his possessions.
A man's true wealth is the good he does in the world.
Command your wealth, else it will command you.
He who loses wealth loses much; he who loses even one friend loses more; but  he that loses his courage loses all.
He who marries for wealth sells his liberty.
Inherited wealth is a big handicap to happiness; it is a certain death to ambition  as cocaine is to morality.
It is not wealth but wisdom that makes a man rich.
Sudden wealth is dangerous.
The first wealth is health.
Wealth and content are not always bedfellows.
Wealth and power do not give peace of mind.
Wealth can buy no health.
Wealth consists not of having great possessions but of having few wants.
Wealth does not always improve us.
Wealth is best known by want.
Wealth is like rheumatism: it falls on the weakest parts.
Wealth is not his that has it but his that enjoys it.
Wealth, like want, ruins many.
Wealth makes many friends.
Wealth makes wit waver.
Wealth makes worship.
Wealth may not produce civilization, but civilization produces money.
Wealth means power; it means leisure; it means ability.
Wealth unused may as well not exist.
If you would be wealthy, think of saving as well as getting.
What weapon has the lion but himself? Rec.
It is better to wear out than to rust out.
The wearer best knows where the shoe pinches.
Everything is the worse for wearing.
Calm weather in June sets corn in tune.
Change of weather is a discourse of fools.
Everybody talks about the weather, but nobody does anything about it.
For weather go to heaven, but for company go to hell.
God's weather is good weather.
In fair weather prepare for foul.
It's always cool weather when the chinquapin blooms.
It's always fair weather when good friends get together.
Man is never satisfied with the weather.
Never waste time complaining about Arkansas weather: it will soon change.
No weather's ill if the wind be still.
Some are weather-wise, some are otherwise.
 For a web begun, God sends thread.
What a tangled web we weave when first we practice to deceive.
Earlier wed, sooner dead.
One wedding makes another.
A wedge of itself splits the oak.
There is no wedge worse than the one from the same log.
Humble wedlock is better than proud virginity.
The chain of wedlock is so heavy that it takes two to carry it, and sometimes  three.
Wedlock is a padlock.
An armful of weeds is worth an ear of corn.
Ill weeds always grow apace; folly runs a rapid race.
The weed of crime bears bitter fruit.
Weeds need no sowing.
We weep when we are born, not when we die.
Weeping may endure for a night, but joy comes in the morning.
Weigh right if you sell dear.
No one knows the weight of another's burden.
The weight of knowledge is never measured.
Weight broke the wagon down.
Weight can break a bridge.
Don't wear out your welcome.
Welcome is the best dish on the table.
Welcome is the best of cheer.
You're twice welcome: welcome when you come and welcome when you go.
A dry well pumps no water.
A well without a bucket is no good.
Dig the well before you are thirsty.
Do not spit into the well: you may have to drink out of it.
Drawn wells are seldom dry.
It is too late to close the well after the goat has fallen in.
The deeper the well, the colder the water.
He is not well bred that cannot bear ill breeding in others.
Many a man has done well at the last hour.
Well married, a man is winged; ill matched, he is shackled.
"Well" is a deep subject.
Never be weary of well-doing.
Every wench has her sweetheart, and the dirtiest the most.
A squeaking wheel never wears out.
Always look on the hindwheels.
He who greases his wheels helps his oxen.
It's a whole lot better to be a little wheel that is turning than a big wheel  standing still.
It's not the wheel that makes the most noise that does the most harm.
The wheel comes full circle.
The wheel of fortune is forever in motion.
The wheel that does the squeaking is the one that gets the grease.
The wheel that turns gathers no rust.
The wheels of the gods grind slowly.
The worst wheel of the cart makes the most noise.
A little less whip and more control.
A whip for a fool and a rod for a school.
Never take the whip when a word will do the turn.
No whip cuts so sharply as the lash of conscience.
One whip is good enough for a good horse; for a bad one, not a thousand.
Ride in the whirlwind and direct the storm.
When the whiskey is in, the wit is out.
Whiskey and gasoline don't mix.
Whiskey make rabbit hug lion.
Whiskey--a good servant but a bad master.
Where there is whispering, there is lying.
Don't pay too much for your whistle.
You can't make a whistle out of a pig's tail.
A man cannot whistle and cat a meal at the same time.
Better to whistle than whine.
Whistle while you work.
A whistling girl and a crowing hen always come to the same bad end.
A whistling girl and a flock of sheep are the best property a man can keep.
It's not who you know or what you know; it's what you know on whom.
Never mind who was your grandfather-what are you? Rec.
Half is sometimes better than the whole.
Better whole than patched with gold.
Never say "whoopee" before you jump.
Once a whore, always a whore.
Spit in a whore's face and she'll say it's raining.
Whores' curses are blessings.
Every why has a wherefore.
Expect no reward for serving the wicked.
No gratitude from the wicked.
The most wicked are often the most obstinate.
The wicked flee when no man pursues.
The wicked flourish as the green bay tree.
The wicked grow worse, and good men better, for trouble.
The wicked shall fall by his own wickedness.
Unenviable is the state of the wicked, however prosperous they may appear.
When the wicked bear rule, the people mourn.
A wicked man is afraid of his own memory.
A wicked man is his own hell.
No man ever became extremely wicked at once.
Shun wickedness.
Wickedness with beauty is the devil's hook ready baited.
Wide will wear when narrow will tear.
Befriend the widow and fatherless.
He that marries a widow and four children marries four thieves.
Never marry a widow unless her first husband was hanged.
 A good wife and health are a man's best wealth.
A good wife is a perfect lady in the living room, a good cook in the kitchen, and  a harlot in the bedroom.
A good wife makes a good husband.
A kind wife makes a faithful husband.
A lazy wife and a large barn bring luck to any man.
A light wife makes a heavy husband.
A nice wife and a back door oft do make a rich man poor.
A no-account wife takes advice from everyone but her husband.
A quiet wife is mighty pretty.
A true wife is her husband's better half.
A true wife is her husband's flower of beauty.
A true wife is her husband's heart's treasure.
A wife is a young man's slave and an old man's darling.
Choose a wife on a Saturday rather than on a Sunday.
Discreet wives have sometimes neither eyes nor ears.
Fat wives make lean husbands.
Good wives and good plantations are made by good husbands.
Grief for a dead wife and a troublesome guest continues to the threshold, and  there is at rest.
He knows little who will tell his wife all he knows.
He that has a good wife has an angel by his side; he that has a bad one has a  devil at his elbow.
He that has not got a wife is not yet a complete man.
He that takes a wife takes care.
He that tells his wife news is but newly married.
He who has a fair wife needs more than two eyes.
He who hasn't anything to do pulls his wife's eyes out.
He who loves his wife should watch her.
If your wife is small, bend down to take her counsel.
It is cheaper to find a wife than to feed a wife.
Lots of men get women, but few get wives.
Most men get as good a wife as they deserve.
Ne'er seek a wife till you know what to do with her.
Never praise your wife until you have been married ten years.
Next to no wife, a good wife is best.
Old wives and bairns make fools of physicians.
Rule a wife and have a wife.
The first wife is matrimony; the second, company; the third, heresy.
The happiest wife is not she that gets the best husband but she that makes the  best of that which she gets.
The second wife always sits on the right knee.
The wife can throw more out the back window in a spoon than a man can bring  in the front door with a shovel.
They all know what to do with a bad wife but he who's got one.
Where there is no wife there is no home.
Who finds a wife finds a good thing.
Who is the wife of one cannot eat the rice of two.
Wife make your own candle, spare penny to handle.
Where there's a will, there's a lawsuit.
Where there's a will, there's relatives.
A man convinced against his will is of the same opinion still.
A man's will is his heaven.
A will of your own will help you to succeed better than the will of a rich  relative.
Let your will roar when your power can but whisper.
One's own will is good food.
We may do as we will if we have the will.
Where the will is ready the feet are light.
Where there's a will there's a way.
Will is character in action.
He that will not when he may, when he will he may have nay.
If you will, others will let you.
To him that wills, ways are not wanting.
The world is full of willing people-some willing to work and the rest willing to  let them.
Bend the willow while it's young.
Willows are weak, but they bind other wood.
Never too late to will.
Those can will who think they call.
Who never wins can rarely lose; who never climbs as rarely falls.
You always will if you can lose with a smile.
You win a few and you lose a few.
A little wind kindles a big flame.
An ill wind blows no good.
As the wind blows, set your sails.
As the wind blows, so bends the twig.
Back the wind and front the sun.
Every wind has its weather.
If we go with the wind, we shall soon be gone with the wind.
If wind blows on you through a hole, say your prayers and mind your soul.
If you sail with a bad wind, you must needs understand tacking.
It's a bad wind that never changes.
Look and see which way the wind blows before you commit yourself.
No wind can do him good who steers for no port.
Puff not against the wind.
Slow wind also brings the ship to harbor.
Sow the wind and reap the whirlwind.
The colder the wind, the warmer the hearth.
The harder the wind, the deeper the oak becomes rooted.
The same wind which extinguishes a small love kindles a great one.
The wind blows easily through a leafless tree.
The wind is fresh and free.
Whatever way the wind does blow, some hearts are glad to have it so.
Where there's a wind there's a wave.
Who spits against the wind spits in his own face.
Wind and tide wait for no man.
Wind before rain, take your topsail down; rain before wind, put them up again.
Wind precedes a storm.
You can't hinder the wind from blowing.
He whose windows are of glass should never throw stones.
When you are washing windows, do the corners first and the center will take  care of itself.
Don't pour new wine in old bottles.
Drink wine and have the gout; drink none and have it too.
Good is the man who refrains from wine.
Good wine needs no bush.
If wine tells truth, and so have said the wise, it makes me laugh to think how  brandy lies.
In wine there is truth.
Never spare the parson's wine nor the baker's pudding.
Sweet's the wine, but sour's the payment.
Take counsel in wine, but resolve afterwards in water.
The sweetest wine makes the sharpest vinegar.
The wine of life comes not from battles but from bottles.
When wine is in, wit is out.
When wine sinks, words swim.
Wine and women don't mix.
Wine and youth are flax upon fire.
Wine has drowned more men than the sea.
Wine is a mocker.
Wine is the discoverer of secrets.
Wine makes all sorts of creatures at the table.
Wine on beer brings good cheer; beer on wine is not so fine.
Wine's fine with a line.
Wine, women, and song will get a man wrong.
Unused wings cannot soar.
You cannot fly with one wing.
All winkers are not blind.
A winner never quits, and a quitter never wins.
All the world loves a winner.
First winner, last loser.
It is just as hard to be a good winner as to be a good loser.
A green winter, a full graveyard.
A hard winter makes a good crop year.
A misty winter brings a pleasant spring; a pleasant winter, a misty spring.
After a rainy winter follows a fruitful spring.
Snowy winter, plentiful harvest.
'Tis a hard winter when one wolf eats another.
Winter comes but once a year, and when it comes, it brings the doctor good  cheer.
Winter eats what summer gets.
Winter weather and women's thoughts change often.
You have to winter and summer with people to know them.
Be a live wire and you won't be stepped on.
A man shall be commended by his wisdom.
A man with wisdom is better off than a stupid man with any amount of charm  and superstition.
An ounce of wisdom is worth a pound of wit.
Bought wisdom is best if you don't pay too dear for it.
Happy is the man that finds wisdom and that gets understanding.
If wisdom's ways you wisely seek, five things observe with care: of whom you  speak, to whom you speak, how, when, and where.
It needs great wisdom to play the fool.
Learn wisdom by the follies of others.
Nine-tenths of wisdom consists in being wise in time.
No wisdom like silence.
The doors of wisdom are never shut.
Through wisdom is a house built, and by understanding is it established.
When wisdom fails, luck helps.
Wisdom brings knowledge.
Wisdom doesn't always speak in Greek and Latin.
Wisdom goes not always by years.
Wisdom in a poor man is a diamond set in lead.
Wisdom is better than rubies.
Wisdom is ever a blessing; education is sometimes a curse.
Wisdom is the principal thing; therefore get wisdom, and with all your getting  get understanding.
Wisdom is too high for a fool.
Wisdom never lies.
Wisdom of many and the wit of one.
Wisdom promises godliness and safety.
The lips of the wise disperse knowledge.
The wise and the fool have their fellows.
The wise is only once betrayed.
The wise seek wisdom; the fool has found it.
The wise shall inherit glory, but shame shall be the promotion of fools.
When the wise is angry, he is wise no longer.
A little too wise ne'er lives long.
A man who is wise is only as wise as his wife thinks he is.
A wise man always carries his umbrella.
A wise man carries his coat on a dry day.
A wise man changes his mind; a fool never does.
A wise man has wise children.
A wise man is never less alone than when alone.
A wise man is nobody's fool.
A wise man is one who keeps his peace.
A wise man is strong.
A wise man knows his own ignorance; a fool thinks he knows.
A wise man learns by the experiences of others; an ordinary man learns by his  own experience; a fool learns by nobody's experiences.
A wise man sees twice as much as he talks about.
A wise man thinks twice before he speaks.
A wise man will learn.
A wise man will make more opportunities than he finds.
A wise man will saw wood and say nothing.
A wise man without work is a bee without honey.
A wise man writes for pleasure; a fool reads because he is curious.
A wise woman never outsmarts her husband.
Any wise man can be fooled by a foolish woman.
Be wise today; 'tis madness to defer.
Follow the wise few rather than the vulgar many.
Go where he will, a wise man is always at home.
He is a wise man who knows more today than he did yesterday.
He is not wise who is not wise for himself.
He is wise enough that can keep himself warm.
He is wise who speaks little.
He that walks with a wise man shall be wise, but a companion of fools shall be  destroyed.
He who thinks he is wise is a fool; he who knows he is a fool is wise.
It is better to sit with a wise man in prison than with a fool in paradise.
It takes a wise man to be a fool.
It takes a wise man to find a wise man.
It's a wise man who knows his own limitations.
Many seem wise when they are only windy.
No man is always wise.
None but the wise man can employ leisure well.
None so wise but the fool overtakes him.
Some are wise and some are otherwise.
Something said by a wise man may be made fun of by a fool.
The wise man hides his wisdom; the fool displays his foolishness.
The wise man said, "It can't be done"; the fool came and did it.
The wisest man is he who does not fancy he is wise at all.
The wisest man may always learn something from the humblest peasant.
'Tis better to lose with a wise man than to win with a fool.
To a wise head, two or three words.
Who is wise is he that learns from everyone.
Wise is he who knows himself and has the strength of will not to have another  drink when he has had his fill.
Wise men care not for what they cannot have.
Wise men excuse others; fools excuse themselves.
Wise men keep guard on their tongue.
Wise men lay up knowledge.
Wise men learn by other men's mistakes; fools insist on learning by their own.
Not wisely but too well.
If a man could have all his wishes, he would double his trouble.
If wishes were horses, beggars might ride.
The wish is father of the thought.
Wishes never fill the bag.
Don't wish about what you wish you had; wish about what you've got.
Don't wish too hard: you might just get what you wish for.
If you wish for too much, you will end up with nothing.
Wish not for that which you cannot obtain.
Wish not to taste what does not to you fall.
Your wishbone is stronger than your backbone.
A sarcastic wit is a human pole cat.
An ounce of wit is worth a pound of sorrow.
An ounce of wit that is bought is worth a pound that is taught.
Bought wit is best.
Good wits commonly agree.
If you have wit and learning, add to it wisdom and modesty.
It is wit to pick a lock and steal a horse, but wisdom to let it alone.
Little wit in the head makes much work for the feet.
Love of wit makes no man rich.
Mother wit is better than book education.
The wit of conversation consists more in finding it in others than showing a  great deal yourself.
Use more wit and less sweat.
Use your wit as a shield, not as a sword.
Wit is the salt of conversation, not the food.
Wit without discretion is a sword in the hand of a fool.
Don't swap the witch for the devil.
A false witness shall not go unpunished.
You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor.
Tell not your woes to him that doesn't pity you.
Who laughs at others, woes finds.
A wolf may change his mind but never his fur.
Don't set a wolf to watch the sheep.
Don't skin your wolves before you get them.
He who marries a wolf often looks toward the forest.
It is better to keep a wolf out of the fold than to trust drawing his teeth and  talons after he shall have entered.
It is difficult to take a wolf by the ears.
It is easy to fool the young wolf.
It never troubles the wolf how many the sheep may be.
Keep the wolf from the door.
Many a man sees a wolf at the door because his wife saw a mink in the window.
Never cry wolf when not in danger.
The wolf eats sheep now and then, but thousands are devoured by men.
Who keeps company with a wolf learns to howl.
Wolves may lose their teeth, but they never lose their nature.
Wolves never prey upon wolves.
Wolves of the same litter run in the same pack.
A gracious woman retains honor.
A skinny woman's like a racehorse: fast and fun, but no good for work.
A two-faced woman and a jealous man is the cause of trouble since the world  began.
A virtuous woman is a source of honor to her husband; a vicious one causes  him disgrace.
A woman, a cat, and a chimney should never leave the house.
A woman, a dog, and a walnut tree: the more you beat them, the better they be.
A woman and a cherry are painted for their own harm.
A woman can throw out the window more than a man can bring in at the door.
A woman can't drive her husband, but she can lead him.
A woman conceals what she knows not.
A woman fights with her tongue.
A woman is a dish for the gods.
A woman is as old as she looks, but a man is never old till he quits looking.
A woman is known by her walking and drinking.
A woman is no older than she looks.
A woman is only a woman.
A woman is the greatest contradiction of all.
A woman knows a bit more than Satan.
A woman laughs when she can but cries whenever she wishes.
A woman never forgets her sex.
A woman over thirty who will tell her exact age will tell anything.
A woman remembers a kiss long after a man has forgotten.
A woman should hang on to her youth, but not while he's driving.
A woman who looks much in the glass spins but little.
A woman's hair is her crowning glory.
A woman's hair is long; her tongue is longer.
A woman's in pain, a woman's in woe, a woman is ill when she likes to be so.
A woman's place is in the home.
A woman's strength is in her tongue.
A woman's whole life is a history of the affections.
A woman's work is never done.
A worthy woman is the crown of her husband.
All women and cats are black in darkness.
All women look the same after the sun goes down.
An aversion to women is like an aversion to life.
Any woman can keep a secret, but she generally needs one other woman to help  her.
As great a pity to see a woman weep as to see a goose go barefoot.
Blessed is the woman who can keep a secret and the man who will not tell his  wife.
Every woman keeps a corner in her heart where she is always twenty-one.
God help the man who won't marry until he finds a perfect woman, and God  help him still more if he finds her.
Goodwill, like a good woman, is hard to get and easy to lose.
Handle with care women and glass.
Is a woman ever satisfied? No, if she were she wouldn't be a woman.
It is a woman's privilege to change her mind.
It is better to dwell in the corner of a housetop than with a brawling woman in a  wide house.
It takes a smart woman to be a fool.
It takes a wise woman to be an old maid.
It takes two old women to make a cheese: one to hold and the other to squeeze.
Let the women wear the breeches.
Lots of men get women, but few get wives.
Never quarrel with a woman.
Never run after a woman or a streetcar: there'll be another along in a few  minutes.
No woman should ever be quite accurate about her age: it looks so calculating.
Once a woman has given you her heart, you can never get rid of the rest of her.
One hair of a woman draws more than a team of horses.
Plain women are as safe as churches.
Tell a woman and you tell the world.
Tell a woman she's a beauty and the devil will tell her ten times.
That woman is young that does not look a day older than she says she is.
The best-dressed woman usually arrives with the least.
The fewer the women, the less the trouble.
The good-looking woman needs no paint.
The level of the woman is the level of the world.
The longest five years in a woman's life is between twenty-nine and thirty.
The only secret a woman can keep is that of her age.
The ugliest woman can look in the mirror and think she is beautiful.
The woman that deliberates is lost.
The woman who'll kiss and tell is small as the little end of nothing.
The woman you keep keeps you.
The world is full of wicked women.
There are two kinds of women: those who take what you are and those who take  what you have.
There is nothing better than a good woman and nothing worse than a bad one.
There was never a conflict without a woman.
There's hardly a strife in which a woman has not been a prime mover.
Two things govern the world--women and gold.
Two women in the same house can never agree.
What a woman has to say above a whisper isn't worth listening to.
When a woman is speaking, listen to what she says with her eyes.
When a woman throws a man over, he usually lands on his knees to another  woman.
Wherever there is a woman, there is gossip.
While there's a world, it's a woman that will govern it.
Woman brings to man the greatest blessing and the greatest plague.
Woman: God bless her by that name, for it is a far nobler name than lady.
Woman is a mystery to men, but women are wise to each other.
Woman will have both her word and her way.
Women and dogs cause too much strife.
Women and dogs set men together by the ears.
Women and elephants never forget.
Women are always in extremes.
Women are ambulating blocks for millinery.
Women are as fickle as April weather.
Women are like books: too much gilding makes men suspicious that the binding  is the most important part.
Women are necessary evils.
Women are saints in church, angels in the street, devils in the kitchen, and apes  in bed.
Women are strong when they arm themselves with their weaknesses.
Women are the devil's nets.
Women are the root of all evil.
Women are wacky, women are vain: they'd rather be pretty than have a good  brain.
Women at lust are a contradiction.
Women, cows, and hens should not run.
Women forgive injuries but never forget slights.
Women leave peace behind 'em when they go.
Women sometimes exaggerate a little, and this is an important point to be  remembered by men and women.
Women will have the last word.
Women would be more charming if one could fall into their arms without  falling into their hands.
You can never pin a woman down to an answer.
You get a woman mad and her blood good and hot, better let her blood cool for  she'll sho' hurt you.
You never can tell about women, but if you can, you shouldn't.
No wonder is greater than any other wonder, and if once explained, ceases to be  a wonder.
Wonders will never cease.
Chop your own wood and it will warm you twice.
Crooked wood makes an even fire.
Do not shout until you are out of the woods.
Don't go through the woods and pick up a crooked stick.
Green wood makes a hot fire.
Sometimes one can't see the wood for the trees.
There are more ways to the wood than one.
Wood half-burnt is easily kindled.
You can always cut more wood off, but you cannot put it on again.
You can't saw wood with a hammer.
Do not take any wooden nickels.
Your wooden overcoat won't have any pockets.
If woodpecker want sweet meat, he haffa don't mind jar 'e head.
You can tell a woodsman by his chips.
Happy's the wooing that's not long a-doing.
Bad is the wool that cannot be dyed.
Many go out for wool and come home shorn.
A flow of words is no proof of wisdom.
A gentle word will make the argument stand.
A good word costs no more than a bad one.
A good word for a bad one is worth much and costs little.
A kind word goes a long way.
A man of words and not of deeds is like a garden full of weeds.
A man that breaks his word bids others be false to him.
A soft word is often worth more than a house and a lot.
A thousand words won't fill a bushel.
A true word needs no oath.
A word before is worth two behind.
A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver.
A word hurts more than a wound.
A word of kindness is seldom spoken in vain.
A word that is not spoken never does any mischief.
A word to the wise is sufficient.
All words are pegs to hang ideas on.
An honest man's word is as good as his bond.
An idle word is never well spoken.
An unkind word is better left unspoken.
Big words seldom go with good deeds.
Blessed are they that hear the word of God and keep it.
By your words you shall be condemned.
Cool words scald not a tongue.
Every word has a meaning.
Fair words butter no cabbage.
Fair words make the pot boil.
Fancy words do not make a scholar.
Few words are best.
Few words, many deeds.
If a man's word is no good, neither is his note.
Immodest words are in all cases indefensible.
In a multitude of words there wants not sin.
It is better to say a good word about a bad fellow than a bad word about a good  fellow.
Kind words and few are a woman's ornament.
Kind words are the music of the world.
Kind words never die.
Loaded words are like loaded dice: they never roll true.
More words than one go to a bargain.
No truer word, save God's, was ever spoken than that the largest heart is soonest  broken.
Of all cold words of tongue or pen, the worst are these: I knew him when.
Of all the words of tongue or pen, the saddest are these: it might have been.
One hard word brings another.
Our words have wings but fly not where we would.
Pleasing words and bad deeds deceive both the wise and the simple.
Smooth words make smooth ways.
Soft words break no bones.
Soft words win a hard heart.
Soften the words to suit the occasion.
Speak kind words and you will hear kind answers.
Spoken words are like flown birds: neither can be recalled.
Tart words make no friends: a spoonful of honey will catch more flies than a  gallon of vinegar.
The hard words cut the heart.
The second word makes the quarrel.
The words of a talebearer are as wounds.
The written word remains.
There's many a true word said in jest.
To one who understands, few words are needed.
Weigh well your words before you give them breath.
When about to put your word in ink, 'twill do no harm to stop and think.
While the word is yet unspoken, you are master of it; when once it is spoken, it  is master of you.
Words and deeds are not weighed in the same balance.
Words are silver and silence is gold.
Words are the only things that last forever.
Words fall lightly as the snow; they're easily and thoughtlessly said, yet hard  words can enter the heart and lie there as heavy as lead.
Words, like feathers, are carried away by the wind.
Words, like glass, darken whatever they do not help to see.
Words may show a man's wit, but actions his meaning.
Words must be weighed, not counted.
Words never filled a belly.
Words once spoken you can never recall.
Words reveal wishes.
You can tell by his words what a fool has in his head.
You can't argue with the printed word.
A man can't do no mo' dan jes' so much work in one day.
A work ill done must be done twice.
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
All work is noble.
By work you get money, by talk you get knowledge.
Chase your work or your work will chase you.
Do work well or not at all.
Do your own work and know yourself.
Hard work conquers the worst of luck.
Hard work is not easy, and dry bread is not greasy.
Hard work is the best investment a man can make.
He has hard work indeed who has nothing to do.
If you want work well done, select a busy man.
It is slow work to be born again.
It's all in a day's work.
Never look at half-done work.
No man does as much work today as he is going to do tomorrow.
No work is worse than overwork.
Nothing is gained without work.
Nothing worth having ever comes without a lot of hard work.
One does his best work when working alone.
Plan your work and work your plan.
The best way to get rid of work is to do it.
The only work that hurts a man is hopeless work.
The works of man will perish.
There is no man born into the world whose work is not born with him.
Too light for heavy work and too heavy for light work.
Work beats worry.
Work before play.
Work consists of whatever a body is obliged to do, and play consists of  whatever a body is not obliged to do.
Work don't never set aroun' hollerin' fer ol' reliable to come to do it.
Work is a fine tonic.
Work is a habit; so is laziness.
Work is afraid of a resolute man.
Work is fine fire for frozen fingers.
Work is not hard unless you prefer doing something else.
Work is not the curse, but drudgery is.
Work is the only capital that never misses dividends.
Work is work if you're paid to do it, an' it's pleasure if you pay to be allowed to  do it.
Work keeps you out of mischief.
Work makes life pleasant.
Work never hurt any man.
Work was made for a Negro and a mule; a mule has enough sense to turn his  back on it.
Work well begun is half ended.
Work well done makes pleasure more fun.
Your work expresses you more correctly than your tongue.
If you are willing to work, you can write your name anywhere you choose.
If you intend to work, there is no better place than where you are; if you do not  intend to work, you cannot get along anywhere.
It may be hard to work, but it must be harder to want.
The fellow who works for a song has trouble meeting his notes.
The harder you work, the more luck you have.
Those who will not work shall not cat.
To work is to pray.
Unless you work hard, you cannot succeed.
Work as if everything depended on you; pray as if everything depended on God.
Work as though you were to live forever.
Work, for the night is coming.
Work hard in harvest time.
Work while you work and play while you play.
It is working that makes a workman.
At the workingman's house, hunger looks in but dares not enter.
A bad workman quarrels with his tools.
A poor workman loses his tools.
A workman is known by his chips.
A workman is no better than his tools.
A workman is worthy of his hire.
As is the workman, so is the work.
Good workmen need good tools.
Not to oversee workmen is to leave them with your purse open.
The workman who would do good work must first sharpen his tools.
Workmen are easier found than masters.
All of the world is crazy except me and you, and sometimes even you are a bit  odd.
All the world's a stage.
Don't go round the world for a shortcut.
He conquers the world who conquers himself.
In spite of colleges and schools, the world remains a ship of fools.
In this world it isn't what we take up that counts but what we give.
It is only an uncivilized world which would worship civilization.
It's a small world.
Let him that will move the world first move himself.
One half the world does not know how the other half lives.
The world does not grow better by force or by the policeman's club.
The world is a ladder for some to go up and some down.
The world is a net: the more we stir in it, the more we are entangled.
The world is a whetstone and man a knife.
The world is an easy target till you come to shoot at it.
The world is dying for a little bit of love.
The world is his who can see through its pretension.
The world is his who has the money to go over it.
The world is made up of two classes, the hunters and the hunted.
The world is too much with us.
The world is too narrow for two fools to quarrel in.
The world is what people make it.
The world is your cow, but you have to do the milking.
The world owes us a living.
The world runs by compromises.
The world turns aside to let any man pass who knows whither he is going.
The world: we live in it, but leave it we must.
This is a world of action and not one for moping and droning in.
Use the world, desire heaven.
What a wonderful world this would be if we all did as well today as we expect  to do tomorrow.
You can't keep up with the world by letting it roll by.
You cannot please the whole world and his wife.
You get out of the world just what you put into it.
A worm is about the only thing that does not fall down.
Every worm has his turn.
He who makes a worm of himself should not holler when trampled upon.
The worm is always wrong when it argues with the chicken.
The worm was punished for early rising.
The worm will turn.
Most worry is half over when you sit down and talk it over.
Nothing worries worry like work.
The worries of today are the minor matters of tomorrow.
They who live in worry invite death in a hurry.
Worry is interest paid on trouble before it falls due.
Worry is like a rocking chair: both give you something to do, but neither gets  you anywhere.
Worry kills more men than work.
Worry never crossed a bridge.
If you can do nothing about it, don't worry; if you can do something about it, do  it--don't worry.
If you worry, you die; if you don't worry, you die anyway.
Worrying doesn't mend nor pay.
Worrying is often stewing without doing.
Be sure that there are others worse off than yourself.
If worse comes to worst, make the best of it.
It is only when men begin to worship that they begin to grow.
Beware of front-seat worshipers.
Always figure for the worst and the best is bound to happen.
Blessed is he who expects the worst, for he shall not be disappointed.
Figure on the worst but hope for the best.
The worst is yet to come.
The worst of a thing is what it will bring.
When the worst comes, the worst is going.
He whose own worth does speak need not speak his own worth.
His worth is warrant for his welcome.
It is not what he has nor even what he does which directly expresses the worth  of a man, but what he is.
It's not the worth of the thing but the want that makes its value.
Man's true worth is the good he does in the world.
The worth of a thing is best known by its want.
The worth of a thing is what it will bring.
True worth is in being, not in seeming; in doing, not in dreaming.
Worth has been underrated ever since wealth was overvalued.
Worth makes the man and want of it the fellow.
What is worth most is often valued least.
I would if I could, but I can't.
A green wound is soon healed.
All honor's wounds are self-inflicted.
An ill wound, but not an ill name, may be healed.
Deepest wounds are often inflicted by praise.
Faithful are the wounds of a friend.
Old wounds soon bleed.
Reopen not a wound once healed.
The private wound is deepest.
Though the wound be healed, the scar remains.
Wounds made by words are hard to heal.
Wranglers never want words.
A man wrapped up in himself makes a small package.
The wrapping sells the parcel.
Beware of the wrath of a patient man.
The wrath of brothers is the wrath of devils.
Don't buy a left-hand monkey wrench.
Don't throw a monkey wrench in the works.
Don't say it, write it.
Don't write and fear no woman.
Don't write before your pencil is sharpened.
He who would write and can't write can surely review.
If you don't write, you're wrong.
Never write what you dare not sign.
Write with the learned; pronounce with the vulgar.
Easy writing makes hard reading.
Never sign a writing till you have read it.
The art of writing is the art of applying the seat of the pants to the seat of the  chair.
Don't compromise with wrong because it is safe.
It costs more to revenge wrongs than to bear them.
It is better to suffer wrong than to do wrong.
Little wrongs breed great evils.
Man only from himself can suffer wrong.
People do wrong, though there is much more to be gained by doing right.
The smaller the wrong, the greater the guilt.
The wrong shall fail, the right prevail.
There is as much in knowing how not to do wrong as there is in knowing how  to do right.
To forget a wrong is the best revenge.
To tell your wrong is worse than keeping your mouth shut.
Two wrongs do not make a right.
Wrong will right itself in time.
Wrongs may try a good man, but cannot imprint on him a false stamp.
You may sometimes be much in the wrong in owning your being in the right.
Count that thing wrong which would be wrong if everybody did it.
Don't scold anyone for doing things wrong if you do them that way yourself.
If a thing is done wrong, it is far better that it had not been done at all.
Only Yankees and fools predict the weather.
A yard is an index to the interior of the house.
Tend to your own little ball of yarn.
A bad year is kinder than the poor man's neighbor.
A cherry year, a merry year; a plum year, a dumb year.
A snow year, a rich year.
After a wet year, a cold one.
It will be all the same in a hundred years.
Men's years and their faults are always more than they are willing to own.
Not by years but by disposition is wisdom acquired.
Our years roll on.
The fewer the years, the fewer the tears.
The first hundred years are the hardest.
The years teach much that the days never knew.
We do not count a man's years until he has nothing else to count.
Years know more than books.
Don't yell before you're out of the woods.
Two yeses make a positive.
No man can call again yesterday.
Yesterday is gone, forget it; tomorrow isn't here, don't worry about it; today is  here, use it.
Yesterday is gone; today is going; tomorrow you may be gone.
Yesterday is past; tomorrow may never come; this day is ours.
Yesterday's errors, let yesterday cover.
It is better to yield than to come to misfortune through stubbornness.
 Yielding an inch would be giving an ell.
Yielding is sometimes the best way of succeeding.
Yielding stills all war.
The young are slaves to novelty, the old to customs.
The young do not know what age is, and the aged forget what youth was.
The young know everything, the middleaged suspect everything, and the old  believe everything.
The young may die; the old must die.
When we are out of sympathy with the young, our work in the world is over.
A young man idle, an old man needy.
A young man looks into the future as an old man into his past.
A young trooper should have an old horse.
A young whore, an old saint.
A young woman married to an old man must behave like an old woman.
As young folks see, the young folks do; as they hear, they say.
Get 'em young and train 'em.
Go it while you're young.
If the young man would and the old man could, there would be nothing undone.
Start young at what you wish to become proficient in.
The way never to grow old and grey headed is to die young.
The young folks think the old folks are fools, but the old folks know the young  folks are fools.
When young folks talk to old folks, they should know what they're about.
You are only young once.
You're as young as you feel.
You're as young as you look and as old as you feel.
Young heads are giddy and young hearts are warm.
Young man married is a young man marred.
Young people can do what the old ones can't because the young ones don't  know it can't be done.
What's yours is mine, and what's mine is yours.
Be yourself.
Conquer yourself.
Don't count yourself too many.
Don't kid yourself.
Look at yourself in the mirror.
Never excuse yourself to yourself.
Serve yourself if you would be well served.
Through yourself you know others.
What you do yourself is half done.
Wherever you go, you can never get rid of yourself.
You have to live with yourself.
A growing youth has a wolf in his stomach.
A man whose youth has no follies will in his maturity have no power.
Application in youth makes old age comfortable.
Every dissipation of youth has to be paid for with a draft on old age.
He that corrects not youth controls not age.
If only youth had the experience and old age had the strength.
If youth but knew and age but could do.
In youth we believe many things that are not true; in old age we doubt many  truths.
In youth we run into difficulties; in old age difficulties run into us.
It is less painful in youth than in age to be ignorant.
Reckless youth makes rueful age.
The mark must be made in youth.
The youth of the soul is everlasting, and eternity is youth.
There's no such word as can't in the lexicon of youth.
There's nothing that keeps its youth but a tree and truth.
To the wise, youth is a time for training.
When a youth is saved, a life is saved; when an old Person is saved, only a soul  is saved.
You cannot mate youth with age unless age has a big bankroll.
Youth and age can never agree.
Youth and white paper take any impression.
Youth comes but once in a lifetime.
Youth is a blunder, manhood a struggle, old age a regret.
Youth is a wonderful thing; too bad it has to be wasted on children.
Youth is full of vitamins; age is full of germs.
Youth is not a time of life, it is a state of mind.
Youth longs and manhood strives, but age remembers.
Youth must store up; age must use.
Youth supplies us with colors, age with canvas.
Youth will be served.
Youth will have its fling.
Zeal is blind when it encroaches on the rights of others.
Zeal is like fire: it needs both feeding and watching.
Zeal is only for wise men but is mostly found in fools.
Zeal without knowledge is a fire without light.
Zeal without knowledge is the sister of folly.
You can tell a zebra by its stripes.
Zero times zero is equal to zero.
